Between them, the Attributes can be used to undertake any kind of challenge in the game world. Sometimes they are used actively, when the character tries to achieve something; at other times they are used reactively to negate the actions of enemies or avoid being afflicted by environmental hazards. It is always the player who performs the test, whether it is made actively (the character affects the world) or passively (the world affects the character). The Game Master tells the player which Attribute must be tested and what modifications to apply (if any). A success test is performed by rolling a 20-sided die, called a D20. In the most simple challenges success is only a matter of the die landing on a number which is equal to or lower than the character’s attribute value. However, most often the attribute value is first modified according to the opposition or the difficulty of the challenge – for instance, if the character tries to hit someone with a spear, the relevant attribute value is modified by the target’s Defense; when trying to open a lock, the attribute value is modified by how difficult the lock is to open. In the latter case the Game Master determines the modification, typically from +5 (very easy) to −5 (very hard). When it comes to the spear attack, the actual modifier is determined with the formula [10 –the enemy’s defense value] (see table to the right). When a challenge is described in the text of this book it is always written with the character’s Attribute first, like this: [Character’s Attribute←Modifier]. When the modification originates from passive resistance, as in the case of a lock, it is instead written [Character’s Attribute −Modification X]. Finally, if the test is meant to be performed without any modifications the relevant Attribute is written in plain text with an initial capital letter: *[[Quick]]*. For more details and examples, see the narrative tutorial starting on page 237.