Dominated by Davokar, a forest that in itself is as varied as a continent. Traversing the woods from Thistle Hold to its northern edge would take weeks, if not months, and on the way one would have to face beasts as well as hostile elves, blight-stricken abominations and treacherous nature. South of Davokar a rolling landscape of fertile plains stretches out. Where they are not plowed by Ambrian farmers, they are covered by pale green grass or small groves where the birds and beasts of the lowlands find shelter. This is Ambria, a kingdom divided into seven duchies encircling a domain ruled by the Church of Prios, the Sun God and the Giver of Laws. The Grand Duchy of Korinthia is by far the largest, just as the capital city of Yndaros is larger than Thistle Hold, Ravenia and the high seat of the Sun Church, Templewall.

The old Symbaroum Empire fell to a blood plague unleashed by the elves of Davokar some 800 years ago.  
20 years ago the push to retake the area was forced upon the Ambrian people (your people). Ancestors of the Symbaroum people that fled south. In these past 20 years the former capital city was recaptured from a barbarian clan in a swift threes day siege and has since undergone swift reconstruction and been rechristened as Yndaros in honor of queen Korinthia's late father Yndare.

Thistle Hold acts as the gateway into Davokar proper. it Is from here that your party has set out from having taken a job as escorts for a trader called [[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Npcs/Kos]], his donkey, and wagon of goods. With a promise of 1000g gold to make the three days trek to a small village carving out a spot in the forest. The road will be bumpy and wet but more than worth the pay promised for a journey to a place so close to the outskirts of the forest. The worst you expect to encounter is perhaps some roaming brigands or the odd wolf.