
In the building called The Merchants’ House, the artisans and store owners of Thistle Hold convene periodically. Together they make up a growing crowd and maybe also a growing faction of power and influence in town. Indeed, the antique dealers have long been strong, but lately also other subgroups have taken steps towards becoming more organized. Many of the artisans’ guilds that were established in Yndaros a few years back, have founded branches in places like Kurun, Ravenia, Kastor and Mergile – now also in the town of Mayor Nightpitch. At the Merchants’ House the members meet to speak of common interests and to devise plans on how to influence the Mayor in important decisions. It is said that the merchants wish for a more open town, where more entrepreneurs are allowed to establish stores and workshops inside the palisade and where the fees for passing through the gate houses are abolished. That way, the dawning trade in Blackmoor would be truncated and eventually the revenues for the town would increase. Other rumors describe the Merchants’ House as a place for forming conspiracies and cartels. Far from all artisans and craftsmen in town are invited to become members and those on the outside are much more often hit by sabotage, robberies and other disasters. Maybe this is because they cannot afford to pay as much for security, but among the dives inside Haloban’s Ring you can sometimes hear fortune hunters boast about having performed tasks for the Merchants’ House – missions whose character they gladly hint at but never talk openly about.