

By the Park of the Elders lays the town’s sun temple with its shining copper dome on the roof. Its First Theurg is named Elfeno, a priest mage who despite his relative youth is said to be one of the Sun God’s most powerful servants. At times when the leader of the temple steps in instead of the liturgs who normally handles the Sun Set Mass, the audience gets to experience something unforgettable. Those equipped to make the comparison claim that not even the First Father speaks with such passion, of his love for Prios and humankind’s appointed task – to tirelessly and humbly cultivate nature, thereby cleansing it from the rampant forces of evil. To the temple anyone can go for spiritual guidance, treatment for diseases and ailments, and not least to have the priests scatter the darkness of a clouded mind. There are also those who turn to the temple after having been exposed to the corruption of Davokar, but for those the priests cannot do much more than pray for the mercy of Prios. What more is, according to gossip, the blight-stricken should really keep away from the temple. If things go badly they can find themselves imprisoned in the catacombs, said to be located beneath the temple, containing people and creatures suffering from corruption sickness. The representatives of the temple have not publicly admitted that this is true, but the black carriages are proof enough for most – carriages manned by grim Black Cloaks that, now and again, stop in front of the temple to be loaded with stone coffins big enough to hold fully grown humans and which always leave town through the South Gate. It is not farfetched to guess that they are heading for the monastery of the Twilight Friars in the Titans