The character is educated and well-versed in the ways of the world: its cultures, its history, languages and artifacts. For centuries heroes, monsters and kingdoms have come and gone and left behind pow erful items and secret texts. This ability represents knowledge about such objects. Through extensive studies a character with this ability knows not only the story of an object but also its properties and applications. The Loremaster ability also makes the character skilled at researching records and administrative documents, something which might be very useful when faced with those kinds of problems and puzzles.

---
- Novice **Free**. With a successful Cunning test, any character who is a Loremaster can figure out the properties of a specific artifact, but not how to activate it. In the same way, the novice can use Cunning to translate a text or understand what is being said in another human language. A character does not need to make a test when uttering simple words and phrases, but a successful roll against Cunning is required when trying to have a proper conversation.
- Adept **Free**. As a cultivated scholar of artifacts, the character can use Cunning instead of Resolute when trying to activate artifacts. With a successful Cunning test, the adept can also read and understand the ungainly tongues of both elves and trolls. To say simple phrases in Elvish or Troll Tongue requires no test, but to initiate a conversation requires a successful roll against Cunning.
- Master **Free**. As an acknowledged interpreter of scrolls, the character may with a successful roll against Cunning activate mystical powers directly from scrolls and parchments. The Loremaster may also use Cunning instead of Resolute to resist mystical effects. Furthermore, the master is familiar with the secrets of Symbaroum. A successful Cunning test is required to be able to read a text written in its ancient and extinct language. It requires no test to utter simple phrases, but to initiate a conversation requires a successful roll against Cunning.