**Only available to Queen’s Spy** 
In Ambria, advances within the field of alchemy have led to the use of alchemical weapons. The secret agents of the Queen are known to employ such devices when combating the enemies of the realm or escaping from hazardous situations. The character can use special elixirs to blind or otherwise weaken the enemy. Note that the master level of the ability Sixth Sense makes it possible to act normally despite being blinded; Sixth Sense does not affect any other effects from Pyrotechnics.

---
- Novice **Active**. The character can use Flash Powder created by an alchemist to dazzle an opponent in melee combat. This requires an [Accurate←Quick] test; the attack deals 1D4 damage (ignoring armor) and the target is blinded for 1D4 turns. The character can also handle alchemical grenades and alchemical mines without risking a catastrophic failure.
- Adept **Active**. The character can use an alchemical Smoke Bomb correctly to fill an area with dense smoke. If the Smoke Bomb is thrown at a distance, an Accurate test is needed for it to land where intended. If dropped at the character’s feet no test is needed, but the character is affected just like all others in the vicinity. Everyone in the area, friends and enemies, are blinded until they leave the place (two movement actions in any direction). Those remaining in the smoke must pass a Strong test each turn or suffer 1D4 damage, ignoring armor, from smoke poisoning.
- Master **Active**. The character can effectively activate and throw an alchemical Thunder Ball at a group of enemies. All targets within a radius of five meters are hit, an [Accurate←Quick] test decides if they suffer whole or half damage. The damage is 1D12, ignoring armor. Furthermore, all targets suffering from the full effect are blinded for 1D4 turns.