The character has learned how mystical powers can be channeled through rituals – powerful but time-consuming magical practices. This knowledge may come from studying under a teacher or from self-studies with a ritual codex.
The character suffers one (1) permanent Corruption from each ritual it learns, except if the ritual belongs to a mystical tradition practiced by the character. In the latter case the character is spared the blight of Corruption.
When it comes to performing rituals, the character suffers 1D4 temporary Corruption if the ritual does not belong to a tradition he or she has mastered. Performing rituals covered by the character’s tradition only gives one (1) point of temporary Corruption.
The Ritualist ability makes it possible for the character to recognize what ritual has been performed by examining symbols and components remaining on the scene, and also to deduce the effects of the ritual, even if he or she has not mastered it.

---
- Novice **Special**. The character has learned to perform one (1) ritual. The ritual may belong to any mystical tradition, but the character must have access to the ritual in order to learn and memorize it. The knowledge may be gained from a tutor involved in the same organization as the character, from a codex found in the ruins of Symbaroum or from another ritualist who imparts the knowledge as a reward for services rendered.
- Adept **Special**. The character has learned to perform up to two additional rituals (three in total), again from any mystical tradition, but bound to the same conditions as those presented at the novice level.
- Master **Special**. The character has learned to perform up to three additional rituals (six rituals in total). Just as before, the Master Ritualist is not limited to the rituals of a single mystical tradition, but must have access to the ritual to be able to learn and memorize it.