The character is trained in how to make good use of a shield, and how to actively fight using the shield as a weapon. Behind the protection of the shield, the character can generate a great momentum to fuel its attacks, as well as strike with the shield itself. This is an effective combination which probably explains why it is so common among both barbarian and Ambrian warriors. The buckler, the light shield usually utilized by archers, is too light to be used with the Shield Fighter ability. The warrior has to carry a sturdy shield made of either wood or steel to generate the required amount of force.

---
- Novice **Passive**. The damage dealt by weapons held in the character’s sword arm is increased by one step; to 1D10 if the character fights with a single-handed weapon or to 1D8 if using a Short weapon. The novice Shield Fighter also wields its shield as an instrument of protection with greater efficiency and therefore receives a +2 Defense bonus instead of the usual +1 when using a shield.
- Adept **Reaction**. The character has learned how to combine weapon and shield so well that every successful attack may be followed up by a shield bash against the same target. The damage of the shield bash is 1D4, and should the character make a successful test against [Strong←Strong] the target is also knocked to the ground.
- Master **Reaction**. The damage of the shield bash is increased from 1D4 to 1D8 and the target is knocked to the ground if the character succeeds with a [Strong←Strong] test.