The character is one of those who are arrogant or desperate enough to cling to the darkness. While other mystical traditions do everything they can to avoid the soul-eroding powers of Corruption, the sorcerer chooses to do the opposite. The powers and rituals of Sorcery rely on the force of corruption and the possibilities offered by the taint. The sorcerer must always balance between grasping the black power that is just within its reach and remaining independent of the darkness. Most sorcerers realize that their chosen path only holds one possible end, and the most depraved among them have already come to terms with this, seeing their final and inevitable enslavement as some sort of salvation.

---
- Novice **Special**. The sorcerer has taken its first faltering steps down the slippery slope of darkness and has found a way to not lose its foothold entirely. The sorcerer can reduce the Corruption he or she suffers from. By ma king a successful roll against Resolute each time the sorcerer suffers Corruption, he or she only receives one (1) point of Corruption.
- Adept **Reaction**. The sorcerer can draw from its own Corruption to successfully use mystical powers. A sorcerer who fails in an attempt to use a power may try again, this time rolling against his or her Total Corrup tion value. Should this test be successful, then the power is activated as normal, but the sorcerer also suffers an additional 1D4 temporary Corruption.
- Master **Special**. The sorcerer can use the Corruption of others in order to enforce its will. Each time the sorcerer attempts to affect the Resolute attribute of another creature, he or she may choose to roll against the creature’s Shadow instead (the creatures Resolute –Total Corruption). Thoroughly corrupted creatures are strangely immune to this; it is as if they feed off the darkness of the world to carry on with their dark calling.