The apparent simplicity of the staff tends to mask its versatility as a weapon, which is demonstrated by skilled staff fighters, often found among Davokar’s elves and the ascetic staff mages who use their rune staffs for fighting if the situation demands it. There are also staff fighters among the barbarians, often using the Pike Axe as a weapon (the same weapon called a Halberd in Ambria). The question of whether or not these fighting traditions have a common origin is redundant; they are all equally effective – something a character with this ability will be able to demonstrate.
Staff Fighting may be performed with all Long weapons – staff, spear, halberd and pike. Also the more exotic Chain Staff can be used. Moreover, staff fighting techniques are especially useful for anyone using them with the simplest of all Long weapons – the wooden staff.

---
- Novice **Reaction**. The character is trained to parry incoming attacks and gains +1 in Defense; with the simple wooden staff or a rune staff – quicker and better balanced than other weapons in the category – the bonus is +2 in Defense.
- Adept **Reaction**. The character uses the back end of the Long weapon to gain a Free Attack if the opponent defends against the initial attack. The Free Attack is rolled separately and the damage is 1D6. If armed with a wooden staff (that is, not a spear or a halberd, but including rune staffs), this may also be done after every successful Defense against melee attacks while holding the weapon – the staff fighter makes a quick riposte after having parried.
- Master **Active**. The character has learned how to target the legs and then attack the fallen enemy with a single motion. The initial attack sends the enemy to the ground if the attacker succeeds with a [Accurate←Quick] test and the follow-up is performed as a Free Attack with Advantage on the opponent.