**Only available to Staff Mages**
The staff mages were once the guards of the Symbarian emperor. After the fall of the last emperor, they retreated to their castle deep inside Davokar, hoping to reform their weakened order. To them, they were to blame for the fall of Symbaroum; they failed in their duty because they focused more on titles, intrigues and status than on protecting the empire. The reformation gave birth to the order as it is today, its members appearing as simply dressed and taciturn mystics with astounding powers. The character is one of the chosen, given a rune staff and the task of restoring the former grandeur of the order by crushing the darkness and placing the rightful heir of the last emperor on the Throne of Thorns in Symbar. The staff mages are an elite order, placing high demands on recruits from the start; only the most promising mystics can ever hope to battle darkness as members of their order.

---
- Novice **Special**. The staff mage binds his or her soul to a rune staff, carved with the runes of the elements. The staff absorbs all corruption the character would have gained by learning the powers of the tradition at the novice level. If the character already has permanent corruption when being bound to the staff, the level of permanent corruption is reduced by 1D6. This can only be done once; if the staff gets lost or must be replaced, no additional reduction is made. In addition, as a free action the staff mage can activate an elemental rune and then deal +1D4 damage with the staff, no matter if it is used in combination with the powers of the tradition or as a melee weapon. The character can chose between fire, lightning, cold or acid. Activating the rune gives no corruption.
- Adept **Special**. The staff absorbs all corruption the character would have gained by learning the powers of the tradition at the adept level. Also, the staff binds the corruption so well that the character gets a second chance to roll for corruption when using all powers included in the tradition; the character suffers from the lower of the two outcomes.
- Master **Special**. The staff absorbs all corruption the character would have gained by learning the powers of the tradition at the master level. The staff also binds temporary corruption so effectively, that the character no longer suffers any temporary corruption when using the powers of staff magic