The character has been initiated into the dirty, but sometimes necessary, art of strangulation. This fighting technique has a bad reputation among Ambrians and barbarians alike, but that does not mean that it is not widely desired by those who want enemies or their guards discreetly taken care of. With this ability the character can do a lot of damage to an unprepared or slow enemy with either a garrote or, if more advanced, with the alchemical Choking Spores.

---
- Novice **Active**. The novice Strangler may attack when at an Advantage. A successful attack deals 1D6 damage each turn and ignores Armor. The target cannot act until the Strangler’s hold is aborted; the character maintains the stranglehold with a successful [Cunning←Cunning].
- Adept **Active**. The character knows how to use the deadly Choking Spores, gathered deep within Davokar by alchemists. With a successful [Cunning←Quick], the spores are thrown at an enemy and deal 1D4 damage per turn for 1D4 turns, ignoring Armor. There is no known countermeasure against the effect of the Choking Spores, other than healing the victim when the damage appears. Affected victims may act as usual, in contrast to the novice level of this ability.
- Master **Active**. The character can use the delicate and lethal Spore Bombs created from Choking Spores by master alchemists. If thrown over a distance, it requires a suc cessful Cunning test for the bomb to land on the intended spot. The Spore Bomb fills a corridor, a smaller area or an ordinary room with a suffocating cloud. Anyone who stands within that area, enemies as well as allies, are affected by the Choking Spores, which ignore Armor and deal 1D4 damage per turn for a duration of 1D4 turns.