**Only available to Mystics**
There are many myths describing the origin of mystical powers, and all established traditions are quick to state that theirs is the oldest, or at least nearly as old as the mystical practice itself. Whatever the truth may be, many believe that it was self-taught mystics with an especially perfected or strong gift who founded the first traditions. 
The Strong Gift – innate or acquired through trials and practice – can still be found with some mystics. For one thing, the gift provides a singular resistance against the corruption of the world. It also endows the mystic with the ability to use improvised mystical powers, at a high cost in corruption.

---
- Novice **Special**. The Strong Gift allows the character to choose a signature power. This power is selected from among the ones already known to the mystic, and that power then only costs one (1) temporary corruption to use. If the character has no powers or just prefers to have a tainting ability as its signature instead, this is also allowed – a gift linked to the ability Ritualist (including all individual rituals) or to Witchsight means that these never cost more than one temporary corruption to use. Also, traits such as Wisdom of the Ages may be chosen. The Strong Gift has no effect on the cost in permanent corruption for learning a power outside a mystical tradition; it only affects the amount of temporary corruption gained when using it.
- Adept **Passive**. A character with the adept level in Strong Gift uses his or her whole Resolute value as the corruption threshold, instead of only half. Such an individual does not become blight born until its total corruption reaches a value of Resolute ×2
- Master **Special**. The gift of the Master lets the character cast any mystical power, albeit only at the novice level. There is a second chance to fail all success tests and using the power causes 1D8 temporary corruption. All mystical powers are available, no matter what tradition they belong to.