Symbolism was developed in the east, beyond the Ravens, in what the symbolists call “The first city of humans” – a place of myth, lost somewhere in the vast deserts of the eastern wastes. Nowadays, the symbolists gather in Vajvod, in eastern Davokar, even though some of them travel far and wide in their search for knowledge of runes, signs and symbols. The basic assumption of the symbolists states that the world consists of signs and symbols, and that it therefore may be affected and influenced by altering signs and symbols which represent its diverse features.
The powers of Symbolism are created by drawing or writing. More fanciful procedures are also possible, like embroidery, etchings or weaves. Procedures aside, the power of the symbol is released by the symbolist’s command, and the symbol vaporizes when its power has been unleashed. Creating a symbol gives no corruption but when it is activated the one who uses it suffers one (1) point of temporary corruption.

---
- Novice. **Special**. The character has begun to grasp the power of runes. The signs must be physically represented – carved, painted, etched, tattooed – which takes time; for a novice, it takes one hour to create a power symbol. However, it only takes a combat action to activate a symbol, which is done by uttering an activation phrase. Note that the symbolist has to see or be in direct contact (melee range) with the symbol in order to activate it. The symbolist can only have one symbol per mystical power prepared in this way. When a symbol has been used it must be recharged, which takes as much time as it does to create the symbol from scratch.
- Adept **Special**. With a combat action, the symbolist can quickly paint a symbol in a book or draw it in the mud or dust of the ground. These temporary symbols transcend the limitation stating that the symbolist may only have one symbol per power prepared. To the adept, activating symbols – no matter if they are prepared in a more permanent fashion (see novice) or are of a temporary nature – is a free action where he or she only has to utter a single word. However, only one symbol may be activated per turn. In addition, the adept symbolist can choose to activate symbols using a physical trigger instead of a word. The trigger is decided by the mystic when the symbol is created, and can for instance be that a living creature enters a room, that someone steps on the symbol or that a weapon is drawn within melee range. The symbolist may or may not exclude him- or herself from this equation, but the allies of the symbolist can not be excluded: if they act in accordance with the trigger, the symbol is activated. The adept can erase one of his or her own symbols with a simple gesture (free action), but this requires actually touching the symbol.
- Master **Active**. As a combat action, the symbolist can draw flaming power runes in the air and activate them as part of the same action. Hence, the symbols work just like the powers of other traditions, aside from the mystic only suffering one point in temporary corruption per activation. These momentary symbols transcend the limitation stating that the symbolist may only have one symbol per power prepared.