Traps have been used since ancient times and in Davokar they are particularly useful. Among barbarians, the art of trap-making is known to many and even Ambrians venturing into the woods know to appreciate a good trap. The character has realized that monsters and abominations are best combated after having been caught and fettered. Trained trappers can deploy and disarm both mechanical traps and alchemical mines. Furthermore, when the need arises, the character can quickly manufacture improvised traps from materials at hand. See more on the rules regarding traps on page 102 of the Advanced Guide.

---
- Novice **Active**. With a passed Cunning test, the character can use a combat action to deploy or disarm a mechanical trap. The effect depends on the level of the trap (see page 127 in the Equipment chapter). The character can also build an improvised trap, but this requires a whole turn to complete. An improvised trap made by the character deals 1D6 damage.
- Adept **Active**. The character can handle alchemical mines the same way he or she handles mechanical traps. An improvised trap made by the character now deals 1D8 damage.
- Master **Active**. The character is a renowned trapper who knows how to make the most of any kind of trap. Traps and mines are counted as one tier higher: weak becomes mod erate, moderate becomes strong and the character gets a second chance on all rolls when using a strong device – the enemies’ attempts to discover, disarm or get free become more difficult; also the damage dice is rolled twice and the highest outcome stands. For alchemical traps, the damage re-roll only pertains to the initial explosion, not the ongoing damage that follows. Improvised traps now deal 1D10 damage.