Trick shooting with bows and crossbows is highest fashion in Ambria, as appreciated at shows as it is effective in combat. Trick archers are not very many, since most people lack the patience for honing their skills to such an astounding degree. The character is one of the few who have dedicated their lives to mastering the bow or the crossbow.

---
- Novice **Active**. The character can use a full turn (combat plus movement action) to aim perfectly and then hit a very precise location on the enemy; shoot a weapon from a hand, nail a body-part to a nearby wall or tree, or aim for the eyes to blind the enemy. The at tack is rolled as usual and if it hits and deals damage, the intended effect also occurs: a weapon is dropped and must be picked up, an arrow that nails the enemy to a wall must be pulled out or broken, and a hit close to the eyes leaves the enemy temporarily blinded. Whichever the case, the target loses a combat action in order to deal with the situation.
- Adept **Active**. The archer can cause projectiles to ricochet off floors, walls, furniture, shields or living creatures with robust skin or armor in order to hit targets behind cover so the character does not need free line of sight before firing. He or she must have an idea of where the target is or have watched it duck into hiding, for instance into cover or an adjacent room. If the target has made a double movement action it cannot be hit. This kind of attack is made as usual, regarding both success test and damage test.
- Master **Reaction**. Once per turn, the character can parry a successful attack at range. This ranged parrying maneuver can be of two types: Versus a melee attack aimed at an ally: The master archer fires a projectile that deflects an attack which otherwise would have hit one of his or her allies. This parrying maneuver requires a passed [Accurate←Quick] test; if successful, the attack misses the ally without dealing any damage. Versus a physical projectile aimed at the archer or an ally: The parrying maneuver requires a passed [Accurate←Quick] test; if successful, the incoming projectile is deflected and misses its target.