- Owner: Gormdan

In the southeastern corner of Blackmoor is a collection of tents with room for about fifty guests. The drunken owner Gormdan, who spends his days dreaming about his joyous childhood in Alberetor, is usually described as being as stupid as he is generous. He is not very concerned about being paid, so long as one treats him to a drink and appear to be happy listening to his dreamy blather. On the other hand, nor is he very concerned with hygiene and bookings – the plaids are literally stiff from dirt and if unlucky you will end up in a pavilion where fifteen people are supposed to cram together in a space barely big enough for eight.

Blackmoor is a dangerous place and Rent a Tent is no exception from that rule. If you spend the night there you must first and foremost be prepared to contract one nasty infection or another. Adding to that, there are threats in the form of unscrupulous guests and boozed neighbors regarding all around them as potential robber victims. And as if that were not enough, it is far from uncommon that the people of southeastern Blackmoor carry things with them from Davokar; nasty luggage which can be revealed when one least expects it. Most recently, during a terrible night in year 21, something abominable clawed itself out of a female explorer’s skin – a towering creature with bare muscles, with fingers transformed into knives of bone, and with outgrowths from the cranium, as if it wore a pointy bone crown. The abomination tore over a dozen people apart before it was cut down