**Tradition**: Only available to Staff Mages
It is said that the earth trembles when a staff mage grows furious – likely a rumor brought about by this ritual. The mage draws on the wrath of the bedrock and keeps it stored in his or her rune staff. When needed, the mage can slam the staff into the ground and a force wave shoots out, like waves on water.
The Quake can be aimed at a physical structure and then crush doors, windows and bridges; the mystic can strike the targeted structure with the staff, or throw the staff using the power [[Staff Projectile]].
No matter if the Quake is directed into the ground or towards an object, the mage suffers 1d6 temporary corruption upon activation.
**Into the ground**: The mage strikes the ground and sets off shock waves that topple all creatures nearby with a passed [Resolute←Quick] test – one roll per creature, ally or enemy. The mystic and adjacent allies are excluded from the effect, just like any enemies within melee range. Those who fall suffer 1d4 damage, ignoring armor.
**Towards an object**: The Quake is powerful enough to crush bridges, walls and doors. The damage dealt is rolled as a usual hit with the staff, but the quality Razing is added thanks to the ritual; the staff damages structures as if it is a battering ram. See the rule Damage on Buildings, page 106, for more information. Doors turn to splinters while floors and bridges crumble to dust. If the mystic crushes a floor, he or she remains standing on the edge of the rupture, but before him or her a hole big enough to require two movement actions to get around opens up. Naturally, if it instead is a bridge that is crushed, anyone wanting to pass must climb or swim to the other side.