One who is fairly capable and is seeking to earn money on adventurous tasks does not have to stay unemployed for long in Thistle Hold. The town is full of fortune-hunters and merchants in need of company, who can offer cash payment or shares in future earnings to interested parties. The destination may be a colony, a nest of free settlers or a barbarian camp site but most often the road leads to the alluring ruins of Symbaroum. And the person or group that is unwilling to follow the orders of some taskmaster is always free to map out their own goals. In the taverns by the Toad’s Square anyone can listen to stories about promising hunting grounds, ask around for directions or even pay for more or less reliable maps to places like Saroklaw, Black Pitch Mire, Jerak or Symbar itself.
Once you have proven what you are made of it might be time to contact Mother Mehira, hoping to get enrolled among her agents. If one succeeds in that, one has a great chance of being hired by more prominent employers, such as Ordo Magica, the Sun Church, wealthy merchants, adventurous nobles or ever representatives of the Queen. For instance, Mother Mehira was honored with the task of assembling an escort to accompany Arch Duchess Esmerelda, the Queen’s half-sister, on a trip to Karvosti. It is said that Serex Attio completely pulverized the furnishing of the Witch and Familiar when he was excluded because of his unruly temper.
Job opportunities can also be found inside the palisade. A group of adventurers can take jobs on the lawful side, for instance as night guards in some antique dealer’s warehouse or as bouncers in one of the taverns by the Toad’s Square. They can be paid to find stolen objects, missing persons, elusive criminals, groups of rioters and cultists, or the unhealthy source behind a mysterious disease. But a word to the wise: irrespective of what one does, one must tread with greater care in the Hold than in Yndaros and other Ambrian cities – at least as long as one has not been given the assignment by Mayor Nightpitch or one of the captains of the town watch. Thistle Hold is a small town, where everyone knows everyone, where everything is seen or heard by someone and where the authorities are anxious to preserve law and order. Stealthy maneuvers, assassinations, diplomacy and shrewdness are always preferable to rampaging through the streets!
Of course, the lawful side also has its darker counterpart. It is far from unusual that those who are up to no good put their trust in newcomers and non-residents. A skilled and unscrupulous group of adventurers can get lots of assignments which involve stealing things (antiquities, treasure maps, journals and so on); sabotaging buildings or objects; or acting as middlemen in shady deals. And it probably goes without saying that he who paws about on the wrong side of the law must be doubly careful in Thistle Hold.