- Owners: Ofera & Moria
- Crafter: Onrax (Liege Troll, chained and collard) Skanander (dead) (Previously the Queen's Mothers medicus)  
- Sells: Elixirs, potions, herbs, and poisons 
- Every time someone consumes a master elixir purchased at the Thaler’s Drugstore, there is a 20% risk that he or she suffers 1d4 of temporary corruption (player rolls the dice)

The Thaler’s Drugstore is the alchemists’ equivalent to Marvalom’s, a store where you can find most anything. The store is run by the sisters Ofera and Moria, but the elixirs are still crafted by their half blind and lame father – the very private and equally renowned miracle-worker Skanander, previously employed as medicus at the court of Queen Mother Abesina. The siblings offer fair prices for herbs and extracts which then are resold or converted into potent elixirs. For a short period during the autumn of year 19 they were forbidden to sell harmful brews, since a handful of murders had been committed with toxins bought at the Thaler’s. But after massive protests from the owners and their customers the ban was lifted – a poison-coated axe or arrow head can be exactly what is needed to lay down an onrushing forest beast or a furiously fighting clan warrior! Furthermore, the vile rumors claiming that Skanander does not hesitate to strengthen his decoctions by using blight-marked herbs and berries cannot be anything other than pure nonsense.




Enthralled potions

The Thaler’s Drugstore hides a secret that if revealed would have disastrous consequences for the siblings Ofera and Moira: all of their most potent elixirs are crafted by a shackled and chained Liege Troll. The troll, called Onrax, was found by their father in an icy cave in the Titans. It was chained to the wall with sturdy iron links and wore a blackened silver band around its ankle – a band that the troll could not remove by himself and that made it weak and drowsy. Skanander and Onrax brokered a deal: The alchemist promised to free the troll and also cut the silver chain before his death, provided that Onrax agreed to teach him everything he knew. Skanander died without making good on his promise and the sisters have no intention of cut ting the band. Onrax sits in his chamber, behind a hidden door in the drugstore’s basement, again fettered by heavy chains and forced to produce master level elixirs on command. He obeys to survive, and he survives while waiting for a chance to seek vengeance. So far his existence is known to none but the sisters, but that may soon change. His hatred and bitterness sometimes grow so intense that he literally corrupts everything he touches. Every time someone consumes a master elixir purchased at the Thaler’s Drugstore, there is a 20% risk that he or she suffers 1d4 of temporary corruption (player rolls the dice). One can only wonder how long it will take before someone starts asking questions about the quality of the Thaler’s stock …