**Tradition**: Only available to Demonologists 
**Material**: A sharp weapon to cut the world’s fabric
A Sorcerer’s lack of respect for the laws of nature lends him or her the astounding ability to tear at and bend apparent constants like time and space. One way to make use of this is to temporarily banish creatures from the world of the living, out into the Yonderworld where alien winds howl in chorus with hunting abominations.
This poses a danger for the demonologist, since every failed attempt to use the power risks bringing an abomination into the world. If this happens, the abomination attacks a random victim, though not someone who is protected by an Unholy Aura or whose soul is already thoroughly corrupt.
The abomination that comes has an equal chance (1d6) of being (1–2) a Vindictive Daemon, 3–4) a Knowledgeable Daemon, or (5–6) a Guardian Daemon (for stats, see the ritual Summon Daemon on page 94 of the Advanced Guide).

---
- Novice **Active**. With a successful [Resolute←Resolute] test, the character opens a temporary rift in the world’s fabric and sends an enemy through it. The enemy returns one turn later, on the characters initiative and in the same location – steaming from the mists of the Yonderworld and having suffered 1D4 Damage (ignoring Armor) and 1D4 temporary corruption. A failed attempt automatically attracts an abomination that enters through the rift.
- Adept **Active**. With a successful test against [Resolute←Resolute], the character sends an enemy further out into the Yonderworld and he or she must struggle to get back; each turn the enemy may roll a Resolute test, a success brings it back to the world. Every turn spent in the Yonderworld deals 1D4 damage (ignoring Armor) and 1D4 temporary corruption. If the target dies or becomes blight-born, the rift closes and the enemy is gone for good. Since the rift is open for as long as the enemy is expelled, there is a risk that a wrathful abomination slips through – every turn after the first, the mystic must pass a Resolute test to stop an abomination from entering through the rift. If the initial test for using the power fails, the mystic must immediately roll a Resolute test to stop a raging abomination from slipping through into the world. The mystic may choose not to try and stop the abomination from entering, no matter if the abomination comes as an effect of a failed attempt to use the power or as a consequence of a successful long-lasting rift.
- Master **Reaction**. Once per turn, one enemy that attacks the mystic in melee is at risk of being expelled to the Yonderworld, [Resolute←Resolute]. If expelled, he or she suffers the same effect as at the novice level. A failed test has no effect; there is no risk that an abomination enters into the world.