**Tradition**: Only available to Pyromancers 
**Material**: None, but Fire Souls often display physical signs of their attraction to fire; a burning gaze, red hair or heat that radiates from the body.
Pyromancers have found that those who dedicate their lives to the study of fire in time learn to instinctively use it as a shield and a weapon. It is even said that the most devoted learn to manipulate the force of hostile fires and paradoxically enough use these burning powers to heal them selves when wounded.

---
- Novice **Reaction**. When the mystic is hit in melee combat, flames strike out at the attacker, dealing 1D6 damage. Also, the mystic suffers less damage from fire, meaning that he or she has +1D6 Armor to damage from that element.
- Adept **Reaction**. Like the novice level, except the protection from fire and the damage dealt against those attacking the mystic in melee combat are rolled with 1D10 instead of 1D6.
- Master **Reaction**. The master’s power is so great that he or she does not take damage but is instead healed by fire. The mystic recovers half of any damage that would have been dealt by fire (if the mystic should have suffered 4 damage, he or she instead heals 2 Toughness). This also pertains to fire created by the mystic when using other powers besides Fire Soul. In addition, the flames that lash out from the mystic when he or she is attacked now also retaliate at range. Powers that affect the mind will not trigger such a retaliation, but powers which potentially deal damage do. The striking flames deal 1D10 damage and Armor protects as usual.