**Tradition**: Wizardry
Material: A fistful of brimstone, with some mercury. 
The mystic has gained insights into the mysteries of fire and can summon fire to form it into a wall or a dome.

---
- Novice **Active**. By making a successful Resolute test the mystic calls forth a wall of whirling flames just in front of it (melee combat distance). The wall is wide enough to cover most corridors and divide most rooms. When in larger rooms and when outside, one can get around the wall of flames by using two Movement Actions, but it can also be flown over with only one Movement Action. It is possible to pass through the wall with an ordinary Movement Action, but all who do suffer 1D12 points of fire damage. Smaller flammable objects such as arrows and bolts are burned to cinder if shot through the burning wall. The wall can also be summoned directly on a group of enemies who are then automatically wounded, provided that the targets form a line in front of the mystic. The Flame Wall is sustained until the mystic fails a Resolute test, made once each turn after the first.
- Adept **Active**. The Flame Wall curves and closes into a burning circle around the mystic and its allies, as well as any enemy combatants within range of melee combat when this power is activated. The wall of flames can either be flown over or passed through, both with a Movement Action, but all who pass through the wall suffer 1D12 points of fire damage. The Flame Wall is sustained until the mystic fails a Resolute test, made once each turn after the first.
- Master **Active**. The Flame Wall curves and bends until it forms a burning dome that covers the mystic and its allies, as well as any enemy combatants within range of melee combat when this power is activated. It is possible to pass through the burning wall with a Movement Action, but all who do so suffer 1D12 points of fire damage. The wall of fire is sustained until the mystic fails a Resolute test, made once each turn after the first.