**Tradition**:
**Material**: A bit of fur or skin from the beast in question. 
The mystic’s understanding of the essence of nature makes it possible to take the form of beasts – a talent that the snake witches of clan Gaoia are particularly renowned for.

---
- Novice **Active**. With a successful Resolute test, the mystic can take the form of a small beast (mammal or reptile); practical when wanting to escape or when scouting, but useless in combat. The mystic’s Attributes remain unchanged but he or she may re-roll all *[[Discreet]]* and *[[Quick]]* tests (including *Defense*). Also, enemies do not get any Free Attacks against the mystic when in beast form, even if it withdraws from melee combat or hurries past an enemy. The mystic does not have to test *[[Resolute]]* to remain in beast form, but has to pass a *[[Resolute]]* test to change back. For the duration of the transformation, the mystic counts as a beast. If the mystic becomes the victim of powers that affect beasts, then it may choose to remain in beast form – and hence suffer the effect of the power – or revert back to its original form.
- Adept **Active**. The mystic can assume the form of a battle beast (wild boar or wolf are most common). The beast form has the Attributes of the mystic but also gains the traits *[[Armored]]* (I) and *[[Natural Weapon]]* (I).
- Master **Active**. The mystic can now assume the form of a truly imposing battle beast, gaining the traits *[[Regeneration]]* (I) and *[[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Rules & Mechanics/Monstrous Traits/Robust|Robust]]* (I) in addition to those gained at the adept level.