**Tradition**: Only available to Necromancers 
**Material**: A piece of a burial gown
Because of his or her closeness to death, the mystic has developed the mystical skill to assume the immaterial form of a spirit. Spirit Walk is hindered by Magic Circle, Witch Circle and Sanctifying Rite; the mystic cannot pass through or leave such areas while moving in the form of a spirit; however, it is possible to assume the spirit form when inside such protected domains. The Spirit Walk also ends if someone lights a Ghost Candle close by (see the alchemical elixir with that name, on page 153 in the Core Rulebook).

---
- Novice **Whole Turn**. With a passed Resolute test, the mystic assumes spirit form. This immaterial form lasts for one movement action (about 10 meters), making it possible to move through even the thickest walls, or, for that matter, through enemies on the battlefield. All attacks aimed at the mystic are ignored unless they are made with mystical powers or artifacts – both deal only half damage. The movement is all that the character can do during the turn, and after having moved he or she reassumes his or her physical form.
- Adept **Reaction**. The spirit form comes instinctively to the mystic. When attacked the mystic may roll [Resolute –Damage] instead of a Defense test; if successful the attack passes through the mystic without dealing damage. The exceptions are mystical powers and artifacts, which deal half damage even if the test is passed. The mystic immediately returns to its physical form. The mystic can choose to roll Defense as usual if he or she prefers, i.e. not use Spirit Walk to avoid a specific attack.
- Master **Reaction**. With a passed Resolute test, the mystic can let an attack – from a weapon or a mystical power dealing damage – start in spirit form and then transcend into physical form once the enemy’s armor has been penetrated; if so, the Armor of the target is ignored by the mystic’s attack.