Theurgy is nowadays understood as the teachings of the mystical force that radiates from the sun and which burns at the heart of the human spirit. Its powers are only found among the most loyal worshipers of the light: the chosen champions of Prios. The theurgs are considered the emissaries of Prios in the world of the living, and their burden is truly a great one. They lead the faithful in prayer, thereby guiding the sun through the darkness of the underworld each night. And their passion keeps the heavenly light from fading; without their strenuous work the ailing Sun God would surely die and the world would plunge into The Eternal Night. Theurgy is an ancient tradition, first developed by the priesthoods devoted to the Old Gods. It is disputed among scholars and the learned whether witchcraft is older than theurgy or if it is the other way around. Either way, the golden age of theurgy is now. Ever since Prios earned himself the devotion and faith of most Ambrians, the bearers of the tradition have thrived. It is not important to them which of the traditions came first and which is the oldest. As far as the theurgs are concerned, the worshiping of moss and veneration of trees are unworthy of mankind’s holy spirit, and most consider witchcraft to be a path that leads only to decay and sorcery. They regard wizardry – the mystical order built on the foundation of older theurgy – in much the same way, as a truly godless and morally questionable practice.

### The Titles of Theurgy
The titles within the tradition of theurgy are inter twined with the Church of Prios, since theurgs are the defenders of the Church, chosen by Sun God himself. Obedience to one’s elders is both highly regarded and enforced, and the punishments for disobedience are severe. Lowest in rank are the initiates, who assist and are tutored by the Church’s Brothers and Sisters, who in turn serve under the elder theurgs, called Fathers or Mothers. Within the organization of the Sun Church there are also priests who have not been granted the God-given powers of the theurgs, and they are called liturgs.

### Powers
The blessings and curses of theurgy include *[[Anathema]]*, *[[Blessed Shield]]*, *[[Holy Aura]]*, *[[Inherit Wound]]*, *[[Lay on Hands]]*, *[[Levitate]]*, *[[Prios’ Burning Glass]]*, *[[True Form]]*, *[[Unnoticeable]]* and *[[Witch Hammer]]*.

### Rituals
The rituals of theurgy, often performed as religious ceremonies, are *[[Command Confession]]*, *[[Exorcism]]*, *[[Heretic’s Trail]]*, *[[Holy Smoke]]*, *[[Judging Bonds]]*, *[[Oracle]]*, *[[Patron Saint]]*, *[[Purging Fire]]* and *[[Sanctifying Rite]]*.

### Corruption
The theurgs of Prios teach that Corruption occurs when nature is allowed to grow without being cultivated and tamed. The Corruption thrives in the wild, in chaos, that which is uncontrolled by humans – and in their encounters with Davokar they seem to find all the evidence needed to support this interpretation of the world order. Every devotee of Prios must accept the threat of Corruption and keep their inner flame burning despite the risk of taint; just as the Lightbringer Ofelya Attio is said to have proclaimed while standing at the threshold of the Dark Lords’ stronghold: *“Fire shall with fire be fought, darkness shall with darkness be vanquished!”*