**Tradition**: Sorcery 
The mystic temporarily transforms his or her hands to flesh crafting and bone sculpting claw-like instruments, put to work on a more or less willing victim. The work transforms the victim into a grotesque mockery of its former self, possessing one or more monstrous traits at level I from the following list: [[Acidic Blood]], [[Acidic attack]], [[Armored]], [[Corrupting Attack]], [[Natural Weapon]], [[Poisonous]], [[Poison Spit]], [[Regeneration]], [[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Rules & Mechanics/Traits/Robust|Robust]], [[Wings]]. Later, the victim may develop the traits granted by the ritual with Experience, as if they were normal abilities. 
A voluntary victim gains 1d4 permanent corruption per trait, but is only affected by whatever amount transcends its current value in permanent corruption. An involuntary victim gains 1d4 permanent corruption per trait, which is added to the corruption it already has.
Since the risk of the victim becoming blight born is high, the careful sorcerer always starts off by binding the victim with the ritual Enslave. With that precaution taken, the newborn abomination will obey its creator after the fall into darkness.

---
**Example**: The sorceress Agathara uses Flesh Craft on one of her servants, who voluntarily submits to be coming “exalted”. She does not know the ritual Enslave, but chains her victim to the wall, just to be on the safe side. The underling has Resolute 12 and permanent corruption 4 when the ritual begins. Agathara opts to give him three monstrous traits, at a total of [3d4–4] in permanent corruption. Agathara rolls 7 on 3d4, giving him 3 more points in permanent corruption, 7 in total. This exceeds his corruption threshold, immediately resulting in an additional 1D4 in permanent corruption. The roll is 3, hence the victim’s permanent corruption is 10. Agathara’s loyal follower is transformed into an exalted version of himself with three monstrous traits at novice level, without becoming thoroughly corrupt. If Agathara had tried to do the same thing to an involuntary victim, the mathematics of corruption would have been grimmer: first, the victim would have suffered 7 in permanent corruption, in addition to the 4 it had, 11 in total – and then suffered 3 more when exceeding the corruption threshold, for a total of 14. Sure, the victim would have received three monstrous traits, but would also have turned into a howling blight beast, out of control. Were it not for the chains, Agathara would most likely have become the newborn’s first meal.