(Vindictive, Knowledgeable or guardian)

**Tradition**: Only available to Demonologists
Outside the world known to Ambrians and barbarians, winds gust over a dead, mist-covered landscape. Abominations roam the mists, hunting for life to consume. Demonologists know how to summon daemons to the world of the living, and can force them into service. These daemons come in three different forms and the summoning of each requires the use of a separate ritual, but since the procedures share many characteristics they are described together.
Irrespective of the type of daemon to be summoned, the procedure is the same: the creature must appear within a symbol prepared on the ground, and wise demonologists make sure to learn, and use, the ritual [[Magic Circle]] in order to protect themselves if something goes wrong during the summoning.
Summoning a daemon requires no test to be rolled once the special symbol has been created; however, in order to subdue the daemon and make it obey the demonologist, a test against [Resolute←Resolute] must be passed. A blood sacrifice in the form of a living Cultural Being gives the mystic a second chance to pass the test, and if the victim has no permanent corruption the mystic also gains a +1 bonus on the test.
If the test is successful, the daemon does the mystic a service; if the test fails, the daemon is free to do whatever it wishes until the same time next day. The creature cannot stay longer than that unless it is bound to the service of the demonologist. Whether or not the daemon is bound to the mystic, it can never enter magic circles, witch circles or a site protected by [[Sanctum]].
The demonologist may only bind one daemon at a time; if more are summoned, the one already bound is freed and will remain in the world for twenty-four hours before returning to its place of origin. However, if the mystic knows more than one of the summoning rituals, he or she can have one daemon of each type in service.
The three rituals let the mystic summon a specific type of daemon – either a Vindictive, a Knowledgeable or a Guardian daemon.
The ritual costs one point in Experience to perform, whether the test to control the daemon is a success or a failure.
**Vindictive Daemon**: The abomination is one of the winged creatures that soar through the mists of the Yonderworld.
If ordered by the mystic, the Vindictive Daemon can track down and attack a known and named creature with the intention of killing it. The mystic needs a link to the target, for example its hair, blood or an item he or she holds dear. The daemon follows the astral link to the victim; if the distance can be counted in day’s marches, the daemon flies at death march pace and must test to see if something catastrophic takes place – maybe it is tracked down by witch hunters, or killed by some other monstrosity along the way.
**Knowledgeable Daemon**: The abomination is one of the manipulative creatures lurking in the mists of the Yonderworld, always looking for lifeforms to tame and consume. A Knowledgeable Daemon answers one question from the mystic; further [Resolute←Resolute] tests provide more answers. The daemon can answer yes or no on a direct question (like the ritual [[Fortune-telling]]) or answer an open question (like the ritual [[Oracle]]). Additional questions do not increase the risk of the daemon breaking free – if a test fails, the daemon will simply refuse to answer more questions – and it takes one hour to get each answer. A blood sacrifice also helps when rolling for additional questions.
**Guardian Daemon**: The abomination is summoned from among the howling monstrosities that rage through the Yonderworld hunting for targets for their hate and frustration. The Guardian Daemon guards a place until it is killed or set free by the demonologist. The daemon will obey instructions regarding who is allowed entry or passage; the demonologist may change the definition regarding who or what may enter or pass, but the pact does not allow him or her to change the location.