The short and wiry people humans call dwarves have a history shrouded in mystery. Looking at the dwarves settled in Yndaros, they display no interest in the history of their kind; they are a people on the move, aimed towards the future, fleeing a dark past that has given them a sense of community, but with out peace or meaning. The dwarven perspective is rooted in the sanctity of the family, the secrets of the spoken word and the conviction that the world is their common enemy. Gamalga of Kadizar, a sage interested in dwarves, is said to have stated that: *“The family is their shield, the language their weapon and the world their battlefield”*.
Gamalga also spoke of the origin of the dwarves. After many fruitless conversations with the dwarves in Yndaros and at the fortress Küam Zamok, Gamalga realized that she would get better answers from elves and trolls, and that these claimed to have never met dwarves before the fall of Symbaroum. They were most likely created in the old empire and Gamalga summarizes her meager findings as follows:

*“They emerged as worms in the rotting carcass of the World Serpent and were given wit by Symbaroum’s sorcerers, to make them better slaves. However, the birth of the people forever bound them to the world and its fate, and because of this bond they early on developed a forceful counterculture which still marks them. The ancestral mothers and fathers of the dwarves created a language with hidden codes and secret double-meanings, so intricate that not even the masters could understand. The dwarves never wrote anything down, since texts could be read, interpreted and even decoded by the lords of Symbaroum. The dwarves kept their dreams to themselves and their voices echoed with the fate of the world.*
*Both elves and trolls confirm that there is power inherent in some dwarven speech, and imply that those who made the dwarves, Symbaroum’s princes, in time learned to hate their creations and fear the power of their very language. After the fall of Symbaroum, the chronicle of the dwarven race describes an arduous journey in the shadow of death, continuously attacked and hunted by others. Nowadays, the descendants of the few who survived Symbaroum’s ruin have spread to many places and their fates are seemingly very different. Apparently, the families in Yndaros are members of a once ruling elite in Küam Zamok, cast out after a bloody revolution – hence, the organized villains encountered in Ambria’s capital are in fact dwarven nobles, used to ruling and giving orders, but incapable of creating even the most essential items themselves. More dubious scraps of information say that their inability to get along has to do with the order of succession in the realm they left behind, and the right to a throne which none of them will ever conquer.”*

The people of Ambria have formed their opinions based on the dwarves in Yndaros, and they are not a very welcoming sort. They demand nothing of others, other than being allowed to mind their own business. To dwarves, the will of the family – as interpreted by the elders – is superior to the will of the individual, meaning that they often appear to have two sets of moral standards: one strictly coded and aimed at the family; another aimed at outsiders and often described as *“a lack of morality”* by their neighbors – since actions which only affect outsiders have no bearing on the internal family relations.
The speech of the Yndarian dwarves is still today so intricate and filled with codes, double-meanings and obscure idioms that their everyday conversations are close to unintelligible to bystanders, no matter how learned. It is also true that their voices have a particular power that some individuals know to make use of. Furthermore, their memory-techniques are highly developed, making it possible for them to run complex “businesses” in Yndaros without writing down a single number or word.

### Dwarven Traits, Boons and Burdens
All characters of the dwarven kind have the trait [[Earth Bound]], the boon [[Absolute Memory]] and the burden [[Pariah]]. 
Many dwarves also have the mystical power [[Retribution]], but functioning as a normal ability. For dwarves, this particular power gives no corruption, not when it is acquired, not when it is used – this only applies to this power and this race.

### Dwarven Names
Judging by the dwarves living in Yndaros, they have a fondness for names which contain many hard consonants, such as k, t and r. Aside from that, there seems to be no difference between male and female names: they are inherited within the family and between generations without concern for gender. All dwarves have also family surnames, just like the Ambrian nobles. However, it appears as if younger dwarves must earn the right to call themselves by their family name, preferably by impressing their relatives and making them proud.
- **Dwarf Names**: Artek, Bolkor, Brana, Dobril, Dranek, Dusa, Jarok, Lazek, Margor, Mirek, Radmil, Stana, Vesnek, Vlador, Yaruk

### Dwarves as Adventurers
Dwarves who choose or are forced to leave their families in Yndaros are lonely and often dangerous individuals. However, for some dwarves, the seclusion becomes the start of the search for a new family, defined by other characteristics than blood. The following reasons may explain why the dwarven player character has left Yndaros to head out into the world.
**Dreams of Doom**: The dwarf is haunted by nightmares of doom and death, for its family or the world as a whole. He or she has left the com munity to become a seeker, hoping to determine the meaning of the dreams and, ideally, learn how to avert the disaster and protect all loved-ones.
**Life-debt**: An outsider has saved the life of the dwarf without asking for anything in return. The character wants to get free from this debt by serving the outsider and doing whatever he or she says. For a dwarf, this is an acceptable reason for being away from the family.
**Outcast**: The dwarf has behaved disloyally, maybe challenged the head of the family or questioned the family’s position in the order of succession. For this, he or she is banished, temporarily or permanently. To most dwarves, exile is a punishment worse than death.
**Spy**: The dwarf is not exiled but pretends to be, with the intent of gaining access to secrets that the family needs. Alternately, the player character may be sent to perform some illegal deed, for instance hunting down a fugitive with a stronger claim to the dwarven crown than the character’s family.