### Elves
The elves of Davokar are not a race per se; instead they are a part of a holy guardian order. Initially, the order involved elves from the virgin regions to the west, where humans have not yet reached and where the Elven civilization is in bloom. This order –by humans known as the Iron Pact – is tasked with preventing the evil that slumbers beneath Davokar’s roots and moss from awakening and spreading across the world.
A majority of the elves in Davokar were born into the order. They have never been west and will never go there; to them the Elven lands of old are and remain a dream that will never come true. From when they are young, they are told that their duty lies in Davokar and that they are not welcome in the old lands. The Iron Pact even has a ceremony to initiate young elves into the order, where weeping elders – led by Prince Eneáno – beg newly awakened summer elves for forgiveness for having forced them to be born, live and die in the Forest of the Death Shadow, Davokar. The life of the pact members is dangerous, their numbers are dwindling and the once so mighty Prince Eneáno is entering his soul’s winter – the increasing unpredictability of the Prince has made it possible for other, disagreeing leaders to position themselves for the upcoming power struggle. The dispute concerns the tactics of the battle against the dark – whether it should be fought with arrows and spears or by forging alliances.
The spirited fairies who wake up after their first dormancy enter the phase of the summer elves, and it is they who constitute the backbone of Davokar’s guardian force: vigilant hunters armed with spears and bows. Many of them die in battle with abominations or taboo-breakers from the less and less cautious humans in the south. Those who survive eventually reach their second dormancy, a time of tearful grief for the elves. The members of Davokar’s Iron Pact all live with the bitter truth that few elves will ever awaken from their second slumber; most wither away before reaching the next life phase.
Perhaps it is for this reason that the holds and forest castles of the Iron Pact always echo with sorrowful songs, lamenting the fallen and withered. Davokar’s elves grow fewer and fewer; not even the ever increasing number of abductions can fill the gaps in their ranks. There is, however, a faint light in the gloom: more and more humans are willingly seeking to join the Iron Pact, and the elves working for alliances point out that there are even Ambrians among them.

### Elvish Traits, Boons, and Burdens
Elvish characters are all [[Long-lived]]. They also have the trait/burden [[Pariah]], since elves are resented by most humans; Ambrians detest them and even barbarians are afraid of them. Also, many elves have the trait [[Wisdom of the Ages]], which is acquired like an ability.
If an elf so wishes, he or she can try to impersonate a changeling, usually by changing into cloths made by humans and trying to mimic human manners. A person with the ability [[Loremaster]] at adept level can see through such a disguise with a passed Cunning test; an elf who is recognized as such among humans suffers the negative effects of the trait/burden [[Pariah]].

### Elvish Names
Spring and summer elves are all given double-names that follow them through the first dormancy; names mirroring their character and/or hopes for what they will be like in their prime. Most who wake up after their second dormancy choose to remove part of the name or change it altogether, but not all. This is up to the individual to decide, and is clearly more a question of taste and style than of function or meaning.
Elven names often have more vowels than consonants and the letter “X” is as uncommon as a name having two consonants in a row.
- **Male Elven Names**: Alal-Roak, Dorael-Ri, Eloan-Eo, Elori, Godrai, Mearoel, Saran-Ri, Tel-Keriel, Kil-Ano 
- **Female Elven Names**: Ahara-Vei, Eleanea, Leiána, Gaina-Anali, Keri-Las, Mael-Melian, Naelial, Tara-Kel, Teara-Téana

### Elves as Adventurers
As a suggestion, player characters of Elven origin should be summer elves, in the second phase of the Elven life-cycle. Sure, it is possible to play older elves, but autumn elves would fare better in a campaign where the other characters are also very powerful since these Elvish beings tend to overshadow most humans in terms of skill, power and insights regarding the deep mysteries of the world.
In any case, elves are uncommon in human settlements and need very strong reasons to travel to such places.
**Mediator**: The elf has been sent to establish relations with a group of humans and try to teach them about the value of the forest and the dangers of exploration. The mission can be self-imposed but is more likely based on the orders of some superior autumn elf.
**Scout**: The elf is sent to gather knowledge, to assess the enemy’s strengths and weaknesses before the battle that is sure to come. The mission-giver is probably a superior and older elf, either a diplomat or a warmonger.
**Exile**: Elves who act against the rules of the col lective are very uncommon, but are not unheard of in corrupted Davokar. Maybe the player character is one of these? Alternately, the exile is self-imposed, as a result of the elf feeling as if he or she has been disloyal or dishonorable, therefore choosing solitude for a while. Or forever.
**Avenger**: Elves tend to live, hunt and fight in small groups with strong internal ties. Maybe the others died as a result of treachery by some supposed ally, and the player character survived, by chance or after having managed to escape or beat down the villain’s henchmen? As the lone survivor the character feels guilty and will not return home before the traitor has paid for his or her crime.