To all Ambrians and most barbarians, the word troll is synonymous with bloody death. Some witches and Ambrian scholars know better and claim that there is much truth hidden in the barbarian legends about troll kingdoms below ground, where the trolls holds court and mighty hymns are sung in halls adorned with beautiful things crafted by Trollish hands. However, those who say that trolls can be civilized also admit that individuals encountered on the surface are dangerous: if a troll leaves the Abyss, it often has a bloody reason to do so.
Trolls do not reproduce, that is for the goblins to do. When goblins feel death breathing down their necks, they ventures down into the Underworld. There they finally fall down and a cocoon-like tis sue sprouts out of their bodies until it covers them completely. Many die while slumbering, but the few who survive develop into the beastly creatures that Ambrians call Rage Trolls. Some of these are found by other trolls while still in the hibernation phase, and are brought to an underground realm for care and safety. The majority crawl upwards to the surface, naked and famished, ready to feed on anything crossing their paths. Some of these crude creatures are found by surface-living Liege Trolls – lords who either dress them in clothes and cultivate their nature, or whip them into obedience and make them the front-runners in their robber bands.
The troll civilization differs a lot from human societies. The value and worth of a troll is deter mined by what he or she can bring to the community, whether in the form of a warrior’s protection, a craftsman’s items or a skald’s songs. The most ruthless and vigorous trolls manage to secure a place among the leaders and become members of the Rulers Caste – a place they only keep so long as they can defend it through fighting and scheming. The trolls often challenge each other to contests as a part of the social game. In most cases, the contest is physical, but it can just as well be about who can keep singing longest or who can craft the most powerful artifact. Physical fights are by far most frequent and even though these confrontations are ritualized they sometimes end in death, if only by accident.
Education through physical and spiritual challenges is deeply rooted within their culture and all trolls aim to grow stronger, both as individuals and as a group. Duels are regarded as the only viable method for achieving this hardening of body and collective. An often heard idiom which captures this says: *“If I break you, our people grow weaker; if I let you get off lightly, you grow weaker.”*
Chapter Master Argoi at the Kurun-chapter has described this in the following way: *“The physical and moral life-style of trolls is clearly demonstrated in the encounter with other folks, since such encounters provide no incentives for showing mercy. In fact, this brutal killer-culture grows even crueler if the enemy surrenders or demonstrates any kind of weakness, because such behavior evokes a special kind of loathing. After all, an enemy who acts courageously is worthy of respect and may therefore be spared, according to troll logic.”*

### Trolls, Goblins and Ogres
Trolls, Goblins and Ogres have a common origin, which is known to all trolls. With increasing age, all goblins feel drawn to the lonely depths of Davokar. It is there they die, alone on the road towards the Underworld – if they do not die from illness or violence before then. The dying goblins seek out a secluded spot where they undergo a remarkable transformation; they pupate. Most of them die in the cocoon, but for some the pupation is nothing more than a new step in their life-cycle, since they develop into trolls while safely slumbering inside the cocoon. At times, something goes wrong as the goblin matures in its cocoon and the progeny – who, without claws, has to scratch its way to freedom – looks very much like a troll but is without some of the defining features. Among Ambrians and barbarians such creatures are called ogres. These “misshapen trolls” also lack the rage trolls’ hunger and strong instinct to head down into the Underworld.
Instead, the ogres often leave the depth of the woods and cling to the first person they happen to encounter. A worrying tendency is that more and more ogres seem to be born, something the trollsingers claim has to do with Davokar growing darker. In general, trolls regard ogres with mixed emotions, but for most they are seen as a kind of distant cousins who deserve their help or at least their compassion.

### Trolls’ Traits, Boons and Burdens
Player characters who are trolls can acquire the monstrous traits [[Armored]], [[Natural Weapon]], [[Regeneration]] and [[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Rules & Mechanics/Traits/Robust|Robust]] as if they were abilities. Trolls also have the burden [[Pariah]], since they scare humans to death.
Trolls may try to impersonate ogres, usually by cutting off their horns, wearing human clothes and adopting the often leisurely movement pattern of the ogres. A person who has at least adept level in [[Loremaster]] can see through such a disguise by passing a Cunning test. Also, while ogres have the burden [[Pariah]], most humans have learned that ogres are usually harmless. On the other hand, a troll who is recognized as such will have grave problems, as most humans tend to react by calling for the Town Guard and troll-slaying heroes.

### Troll Names
Just like dwarves, trolls make no difference between men and women when it comes to names; a troll gets the name he or she deserves. Also, they usually rename themselves several times during their life span, depending on what they experience. It should be noted that the names differ with age, or possibly between more or less powerful trolls. This is most clearly indicated by the use of the letter X, which usually can be found in the names of mightier individuals.
- **Names of young trolls**: Aka, Aroha, Erula, Hibne, Ogmaka, Raham, Riomata, Skadal, Verhar 
- **Names of old/powerful trolls**: Aravarx, Etaxa, Noxar, Ognyx, Rirbax, Vouax, Uhux

### Trolls as Adventurers
By tradition, trolls are tightly bound to their societies and need more than common curiosity to head out into the world. Here follows a couple of examples or incentives which can drive a troll character to adventure beyond the domains of its kin:
**Artifact-collector**: The crafting-skills of trolls are held in high esteem even among elves, and many troll-made artifacts have been given as gifts to allies – or been stolen by enemies. Trolls feel closely connected to everything crafted by their kind and it is important to them that such objects not remain in the wrong place or in the wrong hands. The character is sent to collect one or more of these lost treasures, either from ancient tombs, Symbarian ruins or from unworthy, soon to-be-dead thieves.
**Educational Journey**: Trolls usually send their young ones abroad to learn about the world and its creatures. The destination may vary, but the goal is always to come to terms with the powers which shape the world. Before, many traveled to the closest Iron Pact settlement, but nowadays humankind and above all the newly arrived Ambrians are as interesting, or more interesting, than the elves.