Something is not right with the world. The shadows grow darker as the corruption grows deeper, and natural laws are failing in this twilight of existence. One clear piece of evidence of this downfall is the increasing number of undead.
Undead, as in thoroughly corrupted creatures thirsting for life, are nothing new: the Dark Lords confronted during The Great War awoke whole armies of these gravely cold beings, and Davokar’s ancient tombs harbor their fair share of vengeful undead.
However, a new kind of undead creatures has recently appeared in Ambria. People who die – or should have died – rise again. The Black Cloaks, who secretly are investigating the worrying rumors, seem to think that Ambria’s capital is at the heart of this horrific development. Reports sent to the monastery in the Titans include a slain cultist in Yndaros who clawed himself from his grave and disappeared into the night, a man dead from old age who awakened as if having slumbered and was chased away after having gone to his work-place, and a woman of noble birth who died in childbirth and later escaped the family crypt to kidnap her living child. All these three were later tracked and found, one of them killed by a group of templars, one captured by Black Cloaks for study-purposes and the third caught by an angry mob but lucky enough to escape being burned at the stake – all of them telling examples of what the undead will face if revealed for what they are.
Common for all these new undead beings is that they show clear indications of actually being dead – they are cold, they do not bleed or eat or sleep – yet their minds appear to be intact. And they are all very slowly decaying towards their final death, which might come centuries after their first death.

### Undead Traits, Boons and Burdens
Undead player characters are thoroughly corrupt from the start. Like others of his or her kind, the undead character has a mind and free will; they are not howling abominations bent on destruction.
In other respects, this kind of person is very different from other characters. He or she does not sleep, cannot eat normal food and does not breath – besides as a force of habit and to be able to talk. They can drink in small doses and often do so to blend in among the living. Another important difference is that the undead do not heal: they have to consume fresh, raw flesh or drink blood to regain Toughness (see the trait [[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Rules & Mechanics/Monstrous Traits/Undead|Undead]], level I).
The social consequences of being undead are profound; the undead must constantly struggle to avoid being discovered, and should they fail they will be hounded by witchhunters and Black Cloaks. An undead character must pass a [Discreet←Vigilant] test in situations where they interact with living beings. If the character uses the elixir Twilight Tincture, no test is needed. However, this does not stop creatures with Witchsight from having a chance to expose the undead with a passed [Vigilant←Discreet] test. In that case, the ritual Exchange Shadow can be of use.
All undead player characters start with the trait [[HomeBrew/Ruins of Symbaroum/Rules & Mechanics/Monstrous Traits/Undead|Undead]] (I), and can purchase higher levels as if it was an ability. The character is also allowed to acquire the monstrous traits [[Gravely Cold]] and [[Terrify]] as if they were abilities, but having them from the start is optional.
The undead are thoroughly described on page 196 in the Core Rulebook. Players of the undead must read that section, and their Game Masters must consider what effects playing an undead character will have on the game.