- Masters: Cornelio, Eufrynda, and Goncai
- Access to the archive 1 thaler per session (third floor)
- Translations of cuneiform writings, analysis of artifacts and the casting of rituals needed to shed light on the obscure. 5 shillings to 5 thaler
- Audience with one of the Masters 10 thaler

One of the more reliable but also most expensive paths to knowledge is to visit the town chapter of Ordo Magica. According to what is said, Grand Master Seldonio has stated that the order shall strive to be honest and trustworthy, for several reasons. For one thing, he means that it is good for business if people feel safe to trust the wizards with their questions and finds. And if that is accomplished, it also benefits the order in its ambition to learn as much as possible about the new homeland of the Ambrians. However, this overall aim does not stop there from being individual members of Ordo Magica who do not hesitate to mislead knowledge seeking visitors in order to serve their own purposes and personal gain. For a price varying from five shillings to five thaler (depending on the time spent), the adepts and magisters of the order chapter can help with translations of cuneiform writings, analysis of artifacts and the casting of rituals needed to shed light on the obscure. Additionally, the archive on the tower’s third floor is open to all paying customers who wish to study the travel records and witness statements it contains (at the fair price of one thaler per session). Should that not suffice, it is also possible to gain an audience with one of the Masters in town – Cornelio, Eufrynda or Goncai. This may cost as much as ten thaler for those who do not have good contacts or who cannot offer very important information in exchange.