**Tradition**: Sorcery, Troll Singing 
**Material**: None, only harmful words
Some dark-minded mystics can use their anger and vindictiveness to amass dark energies around a creature they want to hurt. In fact, at the higher levels the effect of this ability becomes instinctive, and all pain that the mystic suffers will undoubtedly be transferred to any enemies in the vicinity.
Note that members of the race Dwarf can learn Retribution as if it was a normal ability. Hence, they suffer no corruption from using this particular power, neither when they learn it, nor when they make use of it. This pertains only to this power and the dwarven race.

---
- Novice **Active**. If the character utters words of doom and passes a [Resolute←Resolute] test, misfortune gathers in a dense cloud around an enemy. All who attack the target get a second chance to pass their attack tests during the rest of the scene. Only one enemy at a time can suffer the mystic’s Retribution this way; changing the target counts as a combat action.
- Adept **Reaction**. When the character suffers damage and passes a [Resolute←Resolute] test, the attacker is bound by a death link. Only one enemy at a time can be bound by a death link, but if a link is broken a new enemy who damages the character can be bound. The death link means that damage suffered by the character is also inflicted upon the bound enemy. This includes all damage, irrespective of source. The Pain Threshold is not affected; it is handled separately for the character and the target. Attacks that do not deal damage can be ignored, but in the case of powers that deal damage as part of their effect, any and all damage is transferred through the link. Damage from the monstrous trait Alternative Damage is also transferred to the target. If the character dies (becomes dead or dying) the link is immediately broken and the damage from the attack that felled the character is not transferred.
- Master **Reaction**. Same as at the adept level, but each time the character suffers damage from an attack and passes a [Resolute←Resolute] test, the attacker is bound by a death link. Hence, the number of creatures bound is unlimited.