**Tradition**: Only available to Demonologist 
**Material**: A sharp weapon to cut the world’s fabric
The sorcerers who have gone furthest in question ing the laws of nature can tear holes in the world and step outside, only to tear another rift in the fabric of the Yonderworld and reenter the world of the living in a new location. As always when the shell of reality is perforated, there is a risk that an abomination slips through and attacks a random creature – except those protected by the power Unholy Aura or whose souls are thoroughly corrupt.
The abomination that comes has an equal chance (1d6) of being (1–2) a Vindictive Daemon, 3–4) a Knowledgeable Daemon, or (5–6) a Guardian Daemon (for stats, see the ritual Summon Daemon on page 94 of the Advanced Guide).

---
- Novice **Active**. With a passed Resolute test, the character can exit the world and return within a range of two movement actions. The mystic suffers 1D4 damage from the journey through the Yonderworld, ignoring Armor. The teleportation does not trigger a Free Attack, even if withdrawing from me lee. The mystic must see the return location when the mystical power is activated. If the test fails an enraged daemon enters through the rift instead.
- Adept **Active**. Same as at the novice level, except the mystic suffers no damage during his or her trip to the Yonderworld. If the test fails, the mystic must pass a Resolute test to stop an enraged abomina tion from entering through the rift in the world. The mystic can choose not to stop the entry and willingly let the daemon get through.
- Master **Active**. Same as at the Adept level, with the addition that the mystic may take someone along on the journey. This someone must stand next to the mystic when the power is activated (melee range) and if the creature is reluctant, the mystic must pass a [Resolute←Resolute] test to force it to follow. The fellow traveler suffers 1D4 damage, ignoring Armor, and also 1D4 temporary corruption from the traumatic experience. If the test fails, the mystic must pass a Resolute test to stop an enraged abomina tion from entering through the rift in the world. The mystic can choose not to stop the entry and willingly let the daemon get through.