The abilities are what really give a character in Symbaroum its distinct role and place in the game world. They represent a person’s skill in utilizing his/her basic attributes as efficiently as possible and are graded in three levels from novice to master.

Some abilities are almost exclusively meant for combat, while others are more focused on problem-solving. Many can be used for both, in which case this is stated in the description of the ability. Also note that many abilities require the player to spend different kinds of Actions – read more about this in the chapter Player’s Rules (page 158). Abilities are rated in three levels: Novice, Adept and Master. An Adept may of course use the ability’s Novice level effect, while a Master can make use of all three levels of the ability. All abilities are described using the same template, with keywords defined as follows: 
◆Active Action: The ability is an attack or similar Combat Action. Some of the active abilities generate extra Actions. These extra Actions may not be used to perform an additional active Action, but they benefit from any passive abilities that the character may have. 
◆ Free Action: This Action may be used an unlimited number of times per turn in addition to a character’s usual two Actions, for as long as it is allowed by any conditions specified in the description of the ability. 
◆ Passive Action: The ability does not require a Combat Action to be activated; in other words, the ability is always active. If a character has two or more passive abilities, then they are all considered active at the same time. 
◆Reaction: The ability is a Reaction to some other Action and therefore doesn’t count against the two Actions a character can perform each turn. Reactive Actions work outside the usual order of Initiative, since a Reaction is performed as a consequence of a triggering Action, regardless of Initiative. Reactions can always make use of passive abilities, but never active ones. 
◆ Special Action: The ability works in a special way, detailed in its description.