The character is schooled in the lore of beasts and knows the secrets of most monsters. Many monsters possess special abilities and unique attacks as well as weaknesses which are good to know about when trying to bring them down. At higher levels the character must pick a specialization – Abominations, Beasts, Cultural Beings or Undead – and receives further advantages against members of that specific category. A character with Beast Lore can identify the tracks of many monsters and beings, and use that information to draw conclusions regarding the size and general behavior of the creature – is it hunting, on the run or just passing through?

---
- Novice **Free**. The character has studied monsters and can make a Cunning test to recognize or recollect a monster’s strengths and weaknesses. The Game Master describes the monster and its statistics to the player.
- Adept **Free**. The character is an acknowledged scholar that has been studying a particular sub-category of monsters (pick Abominations, Beasts, Cultural Beings or Undead). The character now deals 1D4 additional da mage to monsters from that category. This extra damage applies to the character’s allies as well, if they have been instructed in how best to fight the creature.
- Master **Free**. The character now deals 1D6 extra damage to creatures from the sub-category that the player picked at the adept level. This extra damage applies to the character’s allies as well, if they have been instructed in how best to fight the creature.