All peoples in Ambria and Davokar have their blacksmiths, which says something about their importance. Master smiths are revered in all cultures, but especially among Ambrians and trolls.
The cost of crafting objects is half of the listed price and if the blacksmith later sells the item, he or she gets the list price in payment. In other words, the profit made by the blacksmith is half the listed price.
This ability may be used once per adventure, preferably during a quiet interlude (or between adventures if that seems more reasonable). Should the item be of a consumable nature (like arrows or bolts), the blacksmith can forge 10 copies at a time.

---
- Novice **Special**. With a passed Cunning test, the character can make a novice item. The character can also patch damaged armor or adapt armor to fit creatures of larger or smaller sizes. Novice items are all ordinary weapons and armor, including those with the qualities Short and Long. No other qualities can be crafted by the novice smith.
- Adept **Special**. With a passed Cunning test, the character can make an adept item, featuring one quality besides Short or Long. All weapons and armor mentioned in the Core Rulebook and the Advanced Player’s Guide can be crafted by the adept, except items with mystical qualities and those that have more than one quality besides Short or Long. Note that the adept cannot remove negative qualities from items.
- Master **Special**. With a passed Cunning test, the character can make a master item. Master Blacksmiths have the capability to add sever al qualities to weapons and armor, and also to remove negative qualities. Adding to that, they may instill mystical qualities into all kinds of weapons and armor. For each added or removed quality, the list price of the item is cumulatively increased by ×5. Mystical qualities increase the value by ×10.