Heavy cavalry dominates the plains of Ambria, a truth proven time and again by Queen Korinthia when she sent her armored horsemen against stubborn barbarians during the first decade of her invasion. It takes training to be able to use a mount in combat, both for the rider and the mount, but if they are able to work together as one, they become a deadly combination. This ability is also efficiently used by the barbarians of the western plains, who launch raids against the settlements of western Ambria using their horse-drawn chariots. A character with the Equestrian ability also has a good hand with other kinds of farm animals and the like, and can therefore use the ability to calm agitated beasts, for instance keeping watch dogs from barking.

---
- Novice **Reaction**. The character is an experienced rider and used to fighting while mounted. The character knows how to use the weight of the mount in a cavalry charge and deals 1D6 additional damage with one melee at tack if the mount moves prior to the attack.
- Adept **Active**. The bond between a mount and its rider makes it possible for them to make sweeping attacks, meaning that they use parts of their Move Action before an attack, and the rest afterwards. This way, they are able to perform a melee attack without being locked into melee combat. The enemy can only retaliate by using Reactions, or by spending their Movement Action trying to catch up with the rider.
- Master **Reaction**. The master rider can use a cavalry charge even more effectively and therefore deals +1D10 damage with one melee attack if the mount moves prior to the attack.