The use of knives is common in the slums of Yndaros; short blades have advantages when fighting in narrow alleys, down in the drain-tunnels or inside buildings. A special fighting technique has emerged from this, commonly called Knife Play. The skills have spread across Ambria to be employed wherever combat is waged in restricted spaces. 
Knife Play may only be performed with knife-like weapons, i.e. sticking or cutting weapons with the quality Short.

---
- Novice **Passive**. The character can choose to attack with Quick instead of Accurate when attacking with a short, knife-like weapon.
- Adept **Passive**. The character makes two separate knife-attacks at the same target with every combat action. If the character also has Twin Attack, this ability only affects one of the attacks, for a total of three attacks (two with the main hand and one with the other).
- Master **Reaction**. The character can fight effectively with a knife at very short range from the enemy: when the character deals damage with a knife-attack, he or she is assumed to be so close that the enemy has a hard time using ordinary weapons effectively (the character has two chances to pass the Defense test), and is unable to attack with Long weapons. To reach a better distance, the enemy has to…… win the initiative next turn (see Quick Strike on page 99 or Take the Initiative on page 104 of the Advanced Guide) and then continue attacking until the knife-fighter hits again. … use a movement action to withdraw from melee, and then suffer a Free Attack from the knife-fighter. If the Free Attack deals damage, the enemy once again finds itself at too short of a distance to attack effectively.