The rune crafters of Clan Vajvod in eastern Davokar often tattoo themselves and their allies with powerful runes. These runes seem almost alive and glow red-hot when activated in combat. The character carries such tattoos, either self-made (requires the ritual Carve Rune Tattoo) or granted to the character as a gift or a reward, likely for a service of great importance for the symbolist who made it. Rune Tattoo requires that someone uses the ritual Carve Rune Tattoo on the character. If the character has the ability from the start, the tattoo is already in place.

---
- Novice **Reaction**. The rune tattoo provides a +1D4 bonus to armor against attacks, but only if the character chooses to activate it. Activating the effect costs one temporary corruption for each attack that hits and the character decides whether or not to use it before he or she rolls for other kinds of armor. In addition, the rune protects from weather and wind like a full set of clothes
- Adept **Reaction**. The rune tattoo is attracted to injuries on the character’s body and glows around the wounds. The character regenerates one point of Toughness per turn; each point healed costs one point in temporary corruption. The tattooed warrior may abort the regeneration process when he or she wishes.
- Master **Reaction**. The rune tattoo adds power to the warrior’s attacks. When an enemy is hit and the character so wishes, the glowing tattoo flows over the weapon dealing +1D4 damage, at the cost of as many points in temporary corruption for the character.