By way of the shadows surrounding creatures, locations and objects the world’s deeper conflicts are observable for a character with the Witchsight ability. Opening up one’s mind in order to exam ine the world of shadows can provide invaluable insights, but it also entails great risk: the more open the mind is and the deeper the insights are, the greater the risk of becoming tainted by the darkness of the world. It is for this reason that masters of this ability seldom use it to their full capacity. As previously stated, the color of the Shadows can give the character clues regarding the spiritual alliance of the inspected creature (see Shadow & Corruption, page 174). The Game Master manages the nuances and powers of the Shadows and describes what the character sees with its Witchsight.

---
- Novice **Free**. As a Free Action, the character can make a roll against [Vigilant←Discreet] in an attempt to see the dominant Shadow of a creature, location or object. Each such attempt forces the character to suffer 1D4 temporary Corruption
- Adept **Free**. The character has gained the greater insight of an adept regarding auras and mystical phenomenon. Witchsight now reveals all Shadows of an inspected target but not their respective strengths. The character suffers 1D6 temporary Corruption each time he or she attempts to see the Shadows of a creature, location or object.
- Master **Free**. The character has achieved the master’s superior insights and can now see all Shadows and their respective strengths clearly. The character suffers 1D8 temporary Corruption each time an attempt is made to see the Shadows of a creature, location or object.