
The Queen’s most important confidants in Thistle Hold are her legate, Suria Argona, the Law Commissioner Asmerda and one of the captains of the Town Watch, called Dekamedo. Obviously, Suria is far from being so weak and incapable of acting as people believe – she lets her father rant and misbehave while she devotes all her energy to carry out the Queen’s commands. Asmerda was recruited already in year 13 to be the eyes and ears of the Crown in the Mayor’s administration, although she is not always aware of Korinthia’s true ambitions. One who knows everything is Dekamedo, in truth Akman Kohinoor who became orphaned as his father, Korinthia’s cousin, and the rest of the family were attacked by robbers when crossing the Titans. He and a group of well-paid companions in the Town Watch act as the faction’s extended arm when something needs to be dealt with. The long term goal of House Kohinoor is to use the abundance of Davokar to make Ambria so grand that it will make all legends of Symbaroum pale in comparison. But regarding Thistle Hold there are two primary aims: first, Korinthia needs to figure out where in Davokar the Twilight Thistle grows; once that is done Lasifor Nightpitch must die – partly because he knows what plagues her mother Abesina, and partly because Korinthia wants to gain direct control over his town. Asmerda is deeply involved in the search for the Thistle’s growing place but knows nothing of the second part of the plan. She reveres Nightpitch and is already plagued by doubts making her put less effort than she could into the espionage mission. But if she learned that the very life of the Mayor is at risk things would go from bad to worse. The risk is that she would consider warning the intended victim and even side with him against the Queen. Regarding the relations to other factions, Korinthia and her subordinates try to appear as friends and allies to everyone but the Iron Pact. However, in reality Korinthia regards all influential groups in the region as tools to employ in the endeavor to build a powerful and prosperous Ambria. If any faction starts to grow worryingly strong, she tries to weaken it by cooperating with the internal opposition to the leaders – as for instance in the case of the Sun Church. But when it comes to the specific situation in Thistle Hold, House Kohinoor strives to keep a low profile, and will do so all the way until the town’s mayor has passed on to the life hereafter.