
Lasifor Nightpitch is not after power, nor does he crave more wealth than he already has. All that the war-weary veteran really longs for is safety and comfort, not only for himself but for all people in the region. On the other hand, he is a realist who understands that such a dream can never come true. All he can ever hope for is to ease the effects of the clash between Ambria and Davokar, and possibly to have some kind of influence on the strategies of the Queen and the High Chieftain thanks to the location of his town. In the end, it is all about getting the Ambrians to respect the taboos of the clan folk. Lasifor has lived in Davokar long enough to see the correlation between human interference and growing corruption. And he cannot believe that Queen Korinthia will not also be able to grasp the truth of the matter. Both Yagaba and Ader Gorinder, Lasifor’s right hand-man at the Town Seat, know the Mayor’s mind. There are no real tensions between the three, even if they do not always see eye to eye. The witch wants to do more to get the Ambrians to understand, but Lasifor says that his compatriots cannot be persuaded; that they must reach the right conclusions by themselves. Ader wants to stop the trade in Symbarian artifacts and intro duce a prohibition against visiting ruins in the Explorer’s License, hoping to reduce the harm Ambrians do to Davokar. Lasifor basically agrees, but maintains that it is better that expeditions are planned and artifacts sold in the Hold under their supervision, than having such business relocated to Kastor or Blackmoor. Nightpitch is careful not to antagonize the other factions – he wants to come off as allied to all and no one. The only things he cannot accept are sorcerers and others who welcome corruption and use it to gain advantages for themselves. To such individuals he shows no mercy!