
Despite the troublesome Sarvola, the Sun Church has got a firm hold on the town residents. Father Elfeno is rightly both admired and feared, not least for his wholehearted love for Prios and the force he puts behind his words. Prior Emundi is also liked, even if he is seldom seen on the streets of town. When he entered through the South Gate for the very first time, he exclaimed that he had come to the place that best exemplifies Prios’ determination to subdue and cultivate the wilds – words still proudly remembered by the populace. However, it should be clarified that none of the aforementioned is the strongest representative of the church in town. In the copper dome of the Sun Temple lives Deseba the Old – the only person ever to be appointed Lightbringer before death, after having miraculously healed both Korinthia and Jeseebegai right after the Queen was rescued from the fortress of the Dark Lords. The Sun Church’s representatives in Thistle Hold have no political goals in common. They work hard to spread the word of Prios, to help the people in their ambition to explore Davokar, and to keep the town free from corruption. Regarding Sarvola, Deseba has ordered her subordinates to ignore him, under the pretext of wanting to avoid conflicts with Mayor Nightpitch – an edict that both Elfeno and Emundi have accepted reluctantly. Hence, the misdeeds that now and then affect the apostate are not orchestrated by the temple or the monastery, but by radicals among the commoners. The most serious conflict within the church has to do with the interpretation of Prios’ commands. The current reading, which grew dominant during The Great War, describes Prios as strict, merciless and bellicose. According to older interpretations, from whence Prios was but one of many Gods, he is loving, compassionate and peaceful. Those who speak for the latter reading are growing in numbers, but aside from the impatient Sarvola they bide their time until the Queen can give them her full support. In Thistle hold, Elfeno suspects that Deseba is not completely loyal to the First Father. The Theurg wants to be freed from the influence of the Old but will not take part in any conspiracies, especially since Jeseebegai trusts the Lightbringer completely. About relations to other factions, there is no doubt that the priests of the Sun Church owe their allegiance to Prios. The other factions’ quarrels and intrigues belong to the mundane; the duty of the priests is to make everyone accept the commands of the Lawgiver. But then again, it is far from unlikely that when two mundane factions clash, the priests are going to support the party whose ambitions best serve the aims of Prios. It should also be said, that for the majority represented by the First Father, the Iron Pact embody the power of evil. The elves and their conspirators must be captured and set on fire!