Each creature and being is described as posing a specific level of resistance: Weak, Ordinary, Challenging, Strong or Mighty. Each level of resistance is a guide to how dangerous the creature is, based on the number and level of abilities/traits that it has. Note that the monsters can be more or less dangerous to a specific group of player characters, depending on the composition of the group. Experienced players are going to put their abilities and powers to better use, and help each other in a way that makes them stronger together. As a Game Master, you will soon learn to adapt the resistance to your players so that the battles are kept exciting. For a balanced gaming group, with an even distribution of Warriors, Mystics and Rogues, the following often applies:

**Weak Resistance**:: A fair challenge for one newly created player character. Two or three enemies at this level are dangerous for a single player character.
**Ordinary Resistance:** A dangerous opponent to a lone, newly created character. Appropriate resistance for two newly created player characters.
**Challenging Resistance**: A dangerous foe for one experienced player character. Appropriate resistance for two experienced player characters and a clear challenge for a group of newly created player characters.
**Strong Resistance**: Corresponds to a highly experienced player character; a challenge on its own against a group of experienced player characters.
**Mighty Resistance**: A far greater threat than any individual hero, and a deadly challenge on its own, even against a renowned group of skilled player characters.