
If you are after information on Davokar in general and about its southern regions in particular, you may very well find what you need in Karabbadokk, the goblin village east of the Hold. It is far from safe, since most members of the tribe have double-edged feelings towards humans – they live off jobs in and around Thistle Hold, but are also bitter or even hateful since they justly perceive themselves to be badly treated by their employers. But if you offer them reasonable pay or can hire them to do some kind of less degrading work, there is a chance that the Karabbadokks will swallow their anger. A majority of the tribe members can communicate in Ambrian, but if you want to hold a proper conversation you should head towards the village center. There you will find the only real houses in Karabbadokk, three longhouses made from rough timber logs surrounding a courtyard open to the west. In the middlemost house live the tribe’s three leaders – the chief Idelfons, the shaman Njekka and the eccentric Garm Wormwriggler. Questions about Davokar and its beasts are usually answered by the former hunter/gatherer Idelfons, while Njekka has vast knowledge about the barbarian clans and the mystic aspects of the forest – abominations and the sources and effects of corruption. Garm was raised in Yndaros at the Convent School of the Last Light but chose to go back to his roots at the age of ten. He has been a wilderness guide for many years and knows most there is to know about the ruins of Symbaroum and the treasure hunters who roam the region, especially those who have been at it for a while.