The creature has disciplined its Spirit Form to the point where it can manifest itself physically for a shorter or longer period of time.

---
- **I Free.** The spirit can manifest itself physically for one turn, and thereby act as if it had a physical body. If a turn’s Movement Action(s) is enough to cross water, then the spirit can do so. The spirit can use its unarmed attacks or natural weapons during the turn, but suffers damage from anything that harms physical creatures. 
- **II Free.** The spirit can manifest itself with any weapons and armor it had when it died, and use them in battle. The spirit remains physical for as long as it pleases, but cannot change form in the middle of a turn – if the spirit has started its turn in physical form, then the turn is played in physical form. If it so chooses, the spirit can walk around in physical form for an entire scene, in order to cross water, for example. If the spirit is forced, or chooses, to return to its spectral form while crossing water, it is thrown back to solid ground. 
- **III Special.** The spirit has fully mastered its Manifestation and can act physically with any Actions it chooses, while remaining immaterial in regards to everything else. It can attack physically, yet defends itself like a spirit. The spirit cannot be harmed in any way, besides what is stated in the description of its level of Spirit Form. If it so chooses, the spirit can walk around unhindered in physical form, for a longer journey on a boat, for example. If the spirit is forced, or chooses, to return to its spectral form while crossing water, it is thrown back to solid ground.
