The creature moves just as easily below the ground as on the surface, provided that the terrain is made of earth, sand, mud, gravel or similar material – solid rock forces the creature around, below or to the surface. Skilled tunnelers can use the underground to avoid enemy attacks, and the best tunnelers can create sinkholes under enemies, to be used as a weapon.
Even below ground, the creature has a feel for the direction and distance to known landmarks, but it cannot perceive what hides under the surface until it gets there.

---
- I **Action**: Passive. The creature can move at half speed below ground, and hence avoid all free attacks that would otherwise be triggered when passing or closing in on an enemy. 
- II **Action**: Passive. The creature moves below ground at normal speed and with such agility that it can make part of its movement before and the rest after an attack. That way, the creature can appear to make an attack and then disappear, out of range from counter attacks. The only way to avoid the attacks of the tunneler is to sneak, [Discreet←Vigilant], or move up on solid rock, a building or a tree. 
- III **Action**: Active. The creature can undermine a small area in order to create a sinkhole under an enemy group’s feet. Up to five individuals standing next to each other can be caught by the trap; those who fail a test against Quick fall into the pit where the tunneler gets a free attack against each and every one of them. To get out of the hole requires a successful Quick test and a movement action; targets with the Acrobatics ability get a second chance to succeed.