
Vicona of clan Godinja is High Chieftain Tharaban’s official envoy in Ambria and she is seated in the Hold. With her is the witch Yoramon, who was part of the former Huldra Oryela’s inner circle, and six guardian warriors led by Yoramon’s son. All of barbarian heritage are welcome to the modest residence of the envoy, where they can get help with anything from a monetary handout to contacts with suitable trade partners in the Ambrian realm. It has also been known to happen, that barbarians who commit crimes in the Hold are handed over to Vicona, for immediate punishment or for being deported back to their clan territory. Suspicious Ambrians tend to claim that the envoy engages in espionage on account of the High Chieftain, or that she pays Ambrians in the Town’s Seat, the Merchants’ House and Ordo Magica for information and to spread false rumors about the dealings of the clans. Even more serious allegations identify her as the extended arm of the High Chieftain when it comes to hunting down exiled clan members who are trying to hide in Thistle Hold after having violated taboos or committed serious acts of violence. But the few who actually have talked to the mild and kind-hearted envoy assure that the woman behind the mask never would be capable of such heinous acts. However, not many would put it past the dark-gazed Yoramon to lead those kinds of operations. In any case, the whole town knows about the bodies that now and again are found in the northern district of town – the remains of nameless barbarians that no one seems to recognize.