The character belongs to a race of creatures that are naturally tall and often continue to grow their entire lives. But there are variations: some grow quickly, others more slowly while some hardly seems to grow at all.

---
- **Novice Special.** The character is close to seven feet tall and very strong. Such a towering body is easier to hit in combat, which is balanced by a greater natural toughness. The character’s Defense is based on [Quick –2] and it can only use light armor, which must be custom-made and therefore costs twice the normal price. In return, the character naturally ignores 1D4 damage from each hit taken, in addition to any armor it wears. Furthermore, it can deal 1D4 extra damage with one melee attack each turn. 
- **Adept Special.** The character is over eight feet tall, weighs about 500 pounds and has skin as though as bark. A creature like this packs quite the punch but is also easy to hit. The character’s Defense is based on [Quick –3] and it can only use light armor, which must be custom-made and costs three times the normal price. In return, the character naturally ignores 1D6 damage from each hit taken, in addition to any armor it wears. Furthermore, it can deal 1D6 extra damage with one melee attack each turn. 
- **Master Special.** The character is close to ten feet tall, weighs about half a ton and crushes lesser creatures while enemy weapons have a hard time penetrating its stone-like skin. It is very easy to hit a creature of this size, but equally hard to wound it seriously. The character’s Defense is based on [Quick –4] and it can only use light armor (custom-made, costing four times the normal price). In return, the character ignores 1D8 damage from each hit taken, in addition to any armor it wears. Finally, it can deal 1D8 extra damage with one melee attack each turn.