The character has the capability to borrow the appearance of others for a period of time. For young changelings this ability comes naturally, and it can be hard for them not to adopt the appearance and mannerisms of people around them. Mature change lings usually develop greater control over the trait.

---
- **Novice Free.** With a successful die roll against Resolute, the character may adopt a false shape; the form, appearance, voice and clothes of another creature, but not that of a specific individual. The changeling can keep up the appearance for the duration of a scene, but then the illusion fades away. Everyone that the character interacts with will see through the illusion, unless the character succeeds with a [Discreet←Vigilant] test. 
- **Adept Free.** The character may, for a short period of time and with a successful Resolute test, adopt the form of specific individuals that the character has met, and can include clothes and attributes in the image. In combat against multiple opponents, the similarity is good enough to make it hard for enemies to hit their mark – there is a 50% chance that enemies attempting to hit the character hit their depicted companion instead. It takes concentration to maintain the illusory form, which means that the character must make a Resolute test each turn as well as a successful [Resolute –Damage] test each time the changeling suffers damage. 
- **Master Free.** With a successful Resolute test the character may adopt the form of a specific individual and maintain it for the duration of a scene. Anyone who speaks with the character will be able to see through the illusion unless the character succeeds with a [Discreet←Vigilant]. For a character to be able to fool people familiar with the depicted person, he or she must succeed with two tests, first at a distance and then another one if they start a conversation.