
By Sweat and Blood

It is totally true that the palisade and the major part of town were constructed in less than six months and that the goblin tribe Karabbadokk was involved in the project. What is not known is that two other tribes were nearly annihilated in the process. Lasifor Nightpitch became friends with the current chief Idelfons’ father, Ederlug, at the time when he lived with clan Zarek. The Karabbadokks had developed close and friendly ties to the Zareks, and that alliance made them strong enough to subdue two other tribes who were trespassing on their hunting grounds. When Nightpitch and Ederlug shook hands and spat upon each others cheeks, thereby sealing the agreement that made the Karabbadokks leave the woods, the fate of the tribes Buhulgus and Skakkragas were simultaneously sealed. Under the supervision of the witch Yagaba, large quantities of the drug called Wild Chew (see page 76) were prepared. The chew was given to the Buhulgs and Skakks, making them docile and also capable of toiling until they literally worked themselves to death. Several thousands of goblins died, whipped by the Karabbadokks, who in turn obeyed the instructions of their human construction masters. Idelfons and many other aged Karabbadokks still remember the atrocities they were driven to by the encouraging cheers of Mayor Nightpitch. Every time the chief reminds Lasifor of the promises made, he also takes the opportunity to remind him of the dreadful price paid by the Buhulgs and Skakks. Thus far, youngsters like the hot-head Ugtuls know nothing of the misdeeds of the past. But if the truth became known, most of the Karabbadokks would probably rally behind the insurgents – a fact that both Idelfons and Mayor Nightpitch are painfully aware of.


Almost doomed

Nowadays, Nightpitch is on good terms with High Chieftain Tharaban and most chieftains of the southern region, but that has not always been the case. During the autumn of year 14, as the town was preparing to celebrate its one year anniversary, the Hold was all but doomed. Thanks to Thistle Hold, the Ambrians had star ted to journey further and further into Davokar. Battles had been fought with the clans Karohar and Odaiova, and it was clear that the people of the Queen would not abide by the witches’ taboos. When they also awoke the horned toad beast of Clear Water, the High Chieftain decided to act – an army of Wrath Guards, bear warriors from Odaiova, claw fighting Karits and five witches riding on colossi was put together and marched on the northernmost outpost of the Ambrians. Had it not been for the ambitious and treacherous Chieftain Embersind of Odaiova, the two thousand barbarians would likely have burnt Thistle Hold to cinders. But luckily Lasifor was warned of the incoming threat and travelled to meet the enemy in the woods. And the mayor stood strong in the face of danger. During the tense meeting he made the assembled chieftains understand the futility of attacking the Hold – it would in no way deter the Queen in her ambitions, but on the contrary lead to immediate retributions and that the colonization of Davokar would pick up speed. Additionally, he explained that the Queen would rather see the High Chieftain as an ally than an enemy, and that he and the witch Yagaba would gladly function as intermediaries in the negotiations between the peoples. The chieftains were not convinced, but the witch Eferneya came with a proposal that finally made them bury their war axes. The suggestion was that the Ambrians would contribute to limiting the incursions into the forest; a proposal which one year later, after many twists and turns, led to the imposition of the Explorer’s License. The number of people who know just how close the town was to its doom is very limited. The only outsiders to bear witness were two Ambrian hunters, who watched the meeting while hiding in the under growth. Their tale was recorded and stored away in the archives of the Legation, but it was never taken seriously, not by the notaries, nor by the patrons of the dives where the hunters used to drink.


Night home’s Blood Bath

Year 17 the brother of Mayor Nightpitch, Herado, became the commandant of the Town Watch. He assumed the name Duskwatcher and has ever since handled his duties relatively well, despite the popular opinion that it was not merit but family relations which led to the appointment. In reality, the story is even more complicated than that. The fifty year old Herado carries both visible and invisible scars from The Great War. For a long time he was a wreck, surviving on handouts from his brother and an unhealthy mixture of intoxicants. His misfortune seamed to end when he met the barbarian beauty Klarana – he cleaned up, reduced the consumption of drugs and was even employed as a notary at the Town Seat. But it all came to naught during a bloody evening at Nighthome. Lasifor was throwing a party in celebration of the Queen’s birthday. Herado and Klarana were there, as were Commandant Perla with her husband, and Tax Commissioner Dario with his old mother. During dessert Herado burst into tears and when Klarana leaned in to console him he went into a full-blown frenzy – the scarred veteran lunged and punched as if in a trance. As Perla lunged for ward to stop the madness, the Mayor screamed at the top of his lungs, something Yagaba perceived as a signal and struck the Commandant with four storm arrows. The husband of the fallen barely had time to draw his sword before Lasifor slit his throat, to protect both his brother and his friend. In order to save themselves, the Mayor and his witch came up with a plan. The dead were moved to their home, which then was staged to make it look like it had been subjected to an attack from rebellious barbarians. Herado was appointed to succeed Perla as Commandant and given charge of the investigation, in exchange for him promising never to touch any intoxicants again. Regarding the Tax Commissioner and his mother, the latter luckily slept all through the commotion. Dario was kindly threatened into silence and has so far refrained from speaking about what happened. But he knows what he knows, and the day may yet come when he decides to make use of his knowledge for personal gain …


The Sarvola crisis

Sarvola of House Bargomol is the lone survivor of a noble family whose other members refused to leave their residence in eastern Alberetor and in time met a particularly cruel fate. Sarvola followed his tutor Peonio to the Promised Land where he soon became known as Sarvola the Disbeliever. The quarrels between him and the soon-to-be First Theurg at the Cathedral of Martyrs in Yndaros escalated until Sarvola renounced the church to seek shelter behind Thistle Hold’s palisade. Along on the journey he brought a small fortune, salvaged from the family residence in Alberetor. A passage from the Garak Scripture, claimed to account for a brutal battle where countless elves were massacred by abominations and blight born humans. The move and establishment of the heretical Mission House sparked a diplomatic crisis that Sarvola himself was unaware of. Within the Sun Church there were (and are) two distinct factions – one dogmatic, hardened and strengthened by the war against the Dark Lords; one more tempered and forgiving rooted in the old faith. Representatives of the latter alignment were to a large part in agreement with the accused heretic and they also had the trust of the Queen, not least since she was uncomfortable with the sulfurous rhetoric of the theurgs and liturgs. Mayor Nightpitch was close to handing Sarvola over to the wolves when Deseba the Old – the informal leader of the gentler faction – arrived at Thistle Hold with a message from Korinthia. The Queen promised that she and her confidants within the Sun Church would persuade the First Father to leave Sarvola alone, provided that the apostate remained in the Hold. And since Nightpitch actually appreciated the Mission House’s calming effect on certain segments of the populace, he gladly accepted the proposal. First Father Jeseebegai was in turn allowed to send a troop of templars to the free settlement Earthmoor, in the eastern hills of New Beretor. The story of the massacre in that den of heretics never became publicly known.


The truth about Haloban

It was the barbarians who first started telling stories about the Beast Clan – blight marked, raving warriors that attacked humans and goblins in southern Davokar and that did not carry any defining characteristics of the established clans. And soon the first Ambrian witnesses emerged. Ten dead in a logging camp were blamed on the Beast Clan; then a butchered farmer’s family and a burnt down croft. The speculations ran wild. Could it be disguised Ambrian patriots out to defame barbarians in general? Or was it Karits who masked themselves hoping to scare the Ambrians away? In fact, the Sun Priests of Thistle Hold have heard the truth about the Beast Clan, spoken by one of their prisoners – the gravely stigmatized hunter Malrek who remains in a cell deep beneath the temple: when the Ambrians attacked the Jezites in year 10, a large part of the clan members fled down into the natural caves below the fortress, and the camouflaged passage down was never found by Korinthia’s troops. The remaining Jezites have lived down there ever since, continuously affected by the nurturing but also corrupting power of the black bedrock. Natural cavities in the Underworld have also given them access to the surface, by way of gorges and small sinkholes inside Davokar. Malrek was captured and told his tale year 18. The hunter’s testimony was regarded as improbable but so worrying that it must be examined. A group of Black Cloaks followed Malrek’s directions, but even if they found several passages down into the Abyss they located no tunnels leading beneath the town. During the winter of year 19, Lasifor Nightpitch and the Queen’s Legation was informed and it was decided that the search must continue, now supported by the Queen’s Rangers and scouts from clan Odaiova. But six months ago the hunt was called off since natural caves below Thistle Hold had been found, though without any traces of living beings. The caves were never fully mapped; sensitive senses warned about the thoroughly corrupt and corrupting nature of the deep.


Master of Manipulations

Agramai Kalfas, Thistle Hold’s immensely popular Sanitary Commissioner and cousin to the commander of the Queen’s Rangers, is actually a prominent member of The Sacred of the Old Blood – a cult of Ambrian nobles claiming that the dark power of Davokar can be harnessed and used to ennoble both body and spirit. The cult’s existence is so far known by none but the initiated, although fanciful rumors have started spreading through the halls of power. In any case, that such a cult truly exists and that it might have an agent in Thistle Hold is nothing that Lasifor Nightpitch has even considered. Agramai has orchestrated numerous incidents over the years, to advance the cause of the cult and invite Davokar’s powers to town. He calls him self the Prince, acts through manipulation and intricate lies, and is always careful to cover his tracks. Most often he uses drugged agents, or ones ensnared by sorcery, and kills them as soon as they have performed their tasks; preferably persons already involved in some lesser cult. That way, the Town Watch will not have to search for long before believing that they have found the root of evil. Most of the missions are about removing persons who directly or indirectly are trying to hinder Ambrians from approaching Davokar. He has uncovered and had no less than four Iron Pact allies killed, including an elf who came over the palisade on an espionage mission. Adding to that, he has appropriated numerous powerful and dark artifacts from the town’s auction houses and kidnapped untainted humans to use their blood in his sorcery rituals. Thus far he has refrained from trying to manipulate the Mayor and his colleagues at the Town Seat. But he is a frequent and welcomed guest at the Hall of Knights, where he, as gently as possible, is trying to find out if anyone else among the region’s nobles has come to realize the truth about the power of the dark. The only real indication of the existence of The Prince are a few similar witness statements. In a few cases they come from some of his agents who have been captured alive, in other cases from per sons who have seen him meeting the agents prior to some attack. But since he never shows his face when dealing with the henchmen, the statements come off as ghost stories more than anything else – stories about a huge man with his face shaded by a deep hood, dressed in flowing black garments. The Town Watch assigns no credibility to the information and every time it recurs the guards jest between themselves, complaining that yet another witness has heard too many tall tales about the elusive, but oh-so-fictional, Shadow.


