The creature can invade the body of other beings, as if using the ritual [[Posses]] (see page 145 in the Core Rulebook), but without it taking as long. At higher levels, the possession is even reactive, aimed at the enemy who slays the creature. Haunting requires at least level I in the trait [[Spirit Form]].

---
- I **Action**: *Reaction*. The creature can possess a target it touches, for instance after an attack which deals damage. The target has to roll a [Resolute←Resolute] test; if it fails the target becomes a slave to the creature's will and can be made to perform any action, except taking its own life. After one day, the target rolls a second test; if that too fails, the possession lasts for a whole week, after which a new test is made. Should this fail, the target is possessed for a month. And when that time has passed, a final test is made, with failure meaning that the possession becomes permanent. However, the possession may at any time be aborted by successful use of the ritual [[Exorcism]].
- II **Action**: *Reaction*. When the creature or the host it possesses reaches 0 in Toughness, the spirit lashes out and tries to possess the enemy who struck the killing blow. The attempt is made like on level I and if the attack affected an already possessed host, its body falls to the ground, unconscious and balancing on the brink of death for the rest of the scene.
- III **Action**: *Reaction*. The creature can possess as on level I or II, but the duration is automatically permanent – until an [[Exorcism]] is performed or the spirit opts to leave the host for some reason.