Facts on Thistle Hold 
- Founded: Year 13 after the Victory 
- Mayor: Lasifor Nightpitch 
- Law & Order: Town Watch (150 watchmen) 
- Primary income source: Tolls and taxes 
- Building technique: Wooden houses, 2–4 stories 
- Number of residents: about 6,000 
- Daily visitors: about 4,000 
- Neighbors: Blackmoor, the goblin tribe Karabbadokk and the villages Glimmer and Glimmervann. 
- Notable residents: Mayor Nightpitch, the treasure hunter Iasogoi Brigo, the Queen’s legate Suria Argona, the heretic Sarvola, the theurg Father Elfeno and the trouble maker Serex Attio.

The palisade, thirty feet high and made of heavy birch logs harvested at the forest edge, encircles a settlement that has become denser and more towering with time. The broad streets that were deemed necessary to stop the flaming bursts of Elven arrows from lighting up the whole town have with few exceptions been replaced by narrow alleys between buildings that have expanded in both width and height. To counteract the negative effects of such a change, more of the woods have been cut down so that the distance between the North Gate and the forest edge now spans about two hundred paces. Additionally, the number of towers on the northern portion of the palisade has been doubled and all are equipped with both ballistas and catapults. Nonetheless, the Hold’s more prominent citizens have chosen to build their homes on the south side of town. This is where you find the fenced wooden palace of Mayor Nightpitch, the Queen’s Legation, the tower of Ordo Magica and a number of fancy residences, many belonging to some of Ambria’s greatest explorers – Iasogoi Brigo, Lysindra Goldengrasp, Elmea Rabbit’s Foot and Goracai the Young, he who discovered the aqueducts and the sunken city of Clearwell.

The fortune hunter’s harbor is a place where dreams are dashed more often than they are realized, a place where death sometimes appears as a more alluring exit than the town gates, a place where your life is never worth more than the sum of your belongings. Maybe there is some truth to what the subsequently death-sentenced rioter Volfald purportedly shouted during his last night at the Salons of Symbaroum: “Thistle Hold is a crab, a rock-hard shell over flabby insides; I’ll mess around in here till naught but the shell remains!

if one refuses to give in to the strong arm of the law and stays a while in the town, it will soon become apparent that there are ways to avoid detection. As long as you steer clear of talkative witnesses, place a bribe in the right hand, and carefully consider whom your actions might anger you can often get the job done. When you hear someone say that “Thistle Hold lives in the shadows” this is what they mean – in cover of darkness, in alleys and nooks, behind closed doors and shutters thrives that which would never be allowed under a clear blue sky. Contraband is trafficked in and out of town, artifacts are bought and sold without the Mayor getting his cut, people are murdered or severely beaten, and both stores and residences are burgled. There are even those who, convincingly, claim that both members of the Iron Pact and blight-marked cultists live inside the palisade.

The center of town comprises the hub of all commerce in Ambria’s northern region, especially when it comes to the trade in finds recovered from Davokar and handicrafts manufactured by barbarians. Lined up around the Bronze Well at the Antique Plaza are market stands for buying and selling goods, but you will also find the Agency of Mother Mehira and Father Sarvola’s missionary station close by. To the east, west and north of the center family homes, guest houses and taverns lay side by side, more mixed up compared to the south ern district where family homes are in majority. An exception can be found in the district surrounding the Toad’s Square. That area has developed into the town’s center for pleasures and intoxication – a development that gained serious momentum two years ago, as the pleasure palace called Salons of Symbaroum was established.


Memorable Events

The Jezites’ downfall (year 10) Everyone knows that Ambrian forces utterly defeated the barbarian warlord Haloban and his clan after a short siege in year 10. It is also commonly known that the Ambrian force captured Haloban alive and brought him back to Yndaros where he hung by the neck until dead; and that the Ambrian assault totally annihilated clan Jezora. Aside from that, there are some discrepancies in the stories. Most people believe that Queen Korinthia had managed to persuade some members of the clan to betray their master by sabotaging the gates of the fortress, but other stories attribute the sabotage to the heroic actions of a group of Queen’s Rangers. And regarding the clan’s destruction, several diverse stories are told. Some say that also women and children died fighting, others that most Jezites went up in flames with the hall where they were hiding, and there are even those who maintain that the clan members died in a mass suicide. No matter what one believes, the annihilation of the Jezites meant the end of the barbarian presence on the southern plains. Haloban’s fortress was demolished so that no one would try to recapture it, and after that the area surrounding the ancient bronze well lay desolate for over two years, until Lasifor Nightpitch initiated his grandiose construction project.


The attack of Eloan-eo (year 13) During the late fall of year 13, while Thistle Hold was still under construction, an attack was launched from the forest. A force made up of at least a hundred elves (some say five hundred) struck just before dawn. Four rounds of fire arrows painted red stripes across the night sky and were followed by a fearless melee assault on the war veterans hired to defend the construction site. The leader of the elves, later identified as the autumn elf Eloan-Eo, fell to the sword wielded by Serex Attio – several witnesses claim that the elf was beheaded from behind as he was running for the newly built toad statue. The bloodbath ended in Ambrian victory, but many humans were killed and large parts of the town’s northern districts went up in flames. In the following years the elves made numerous attempts to demolish the Hold, through outright attacks or by sneaky acts of sabotage, most recently during the winter of year 20 when two murderous elves were caught in an attic near Nighthome. But none of the later incidents have caused such great losses in lives and property as the attack of Eloan-Eo.


the Birth of the Beacon (year 15) The story of the construction of Thistle Hold’s Beacon is a bloody tale that all newcomers soon will hear. It started when Nightpitch asked three contractors for suggestions on how the tower should be built – one of these got his throat slit in a bar brawl, another backed out after having survived a serious blood infection. The one remaining was Balon Daar, and since he could not be accused of taking part in any wrongdoings the contract was awarded to him. Then the construction claimed numerous lives. The first design was nearly a hundred feet high when it suddenly collapsed – sabotage said the contractor; faulty calculations claimed others. Irrespective of which, two ogres and five goblins died in the col lapse, along with four young treasure hunters who were crushed where they were sitting in a tavern, drinking and boasting about their exploits. Before the work was done, another ogre and four more goblins had died, and as everyone knows, the tower continues to claim lives (since despondent residents tend to use it as a gateway to the after life). Yes, even if almost all explorers and treasure hunters in town have had reason to thank Mayor Nightpitch for the guiding flame of the Beacon, there are many who claim that the structure is cursed. And if one is to believe the really dark-minded storytellers, the Beacon is an actual living being, brought to life by the blood soaking the ground on which it stands, and forever thirsting for more.


the tiny gladiatress (year 15) Those who were present at the inauguration of the gladiator arena The Abomitorium, a spring day in year 15, will never forget what they saw. After a few exciting fights between the town heroes and beasts of the forest it was time for the Grand Finale – twenty hardened war veterans against as many goblins who had been captured during a raid on a robber tribe close to Karvosti. With wooden spears and shields, the nine teen goblins did their best to defend against the Ambrians. The twentieth creature stood still. Those present swear that this individual could not have been a goblin, even if she had their size, posture and disfigurements. Whatever the case may have been, she watched the slaughter with a warm smile, until the last of her fellow combatants fell dead at her feet. Then she shook her head, smacked her tongue in disapproval, and went to work. The dry dirt of the arena whirled up in a dancing, local sand storm covering the scene. Shortly thereafter, the horrified spectators heard the death roars rise from the throats of their celebrated war heroes. And as the storm died out all of them were dead, most of them impaled on their own weapons. The creature dusted off her hands and wiped her bloody face clean with the hem of her skirt. No one tried to stop her as she calmly left the Abomitorium, passed through the Western Gate and disappeared into the woods. To this day, the reason why this apparently powerful creature let herself be caught along with the goblins is a topic for heated discussions among the Davokar experts of Thistle Hold.


