As more and more Ambrians settle down in the shadow of Davokar, it grows more common that these settlements are haunted by the famished, vindictive or even life-hating horrors of the forest. In light of this growing threat, actionable individuals have developed techniques and skills for hunting monsters – the often considerable price of monster trophies is certainly another incentive! Also the barbarian clans have their monster hunters, even though the people of the forest adhere to the witches’ taboos and seldom live or travel in monster infested areas. A majority of the Ambrian monster hunters are members of monster hunting societies, established in or around places like Thistle Hold and Kastor. These groups both compete and cooperate in the never ending work to keep the border settlements secure and the members of the societies rich. The latter part, the wealth, has attracted a growing number of barbarian monster hunters south, where they have turned into very successful trophy collectors, thanks to their vast knowledge of Davokar.

### Monster Hunting Societies
In Thistle Hold, the monster hunters have gathered into a number of Societies, out of which The Red Claw is the most famous one. Other monster hunters of note are the boastful newcomers Markas’ Impalers, and the more serious teratologists belonging to Nikanor’s Taxidermian Guild, who collect monster carcasses in good condition for study purposes. Many of these groups have openly established outposts close to Karvosti and frequently visit the newly opened store Crueljaws’ Traps, where the retired ogre who has given the establishment its name sells his ingenious hunting devices.

---
- **Important Attributes**: [[Cunning]] 13+, [[Accurate]] 11+
- **Suggested Race**: [[Human]]
- **Appropriate Abilities**: [[Beast Lore]], [[Marksman]] or [[Polearm Mastery]], [[Trapper]]
- **Suggested Boons**: [[Bloodhound]], [[Bushcraft]], [[Cartographer]], [[Contacts]], [[Pack-Mule]], [[Privileged]], [[Servant]]
- **Suggested Burdens**: [[Addiction]], [[Arch Enemy]]