Little is known about the origin of goblins, but their presence in the southern outskirts of Davokar is quite obvious. The tribe that left the darkness of Davokar to settle down close to Thistle Hold swarms and makes such a racket that they have made themselves quite unpopular among the town’s human populace. Their fiery temperament and strange ways of socializing have contributed to the disapproval: “Hide the Boot”, “Tame the Ogre”, “Trim the Thistle”, “Tighten the Temple” and “Want a Smack, Molok?” are party games that outsiders are reluctant to even watch.
The life of a goblin is short – a goblin is considered a youngster at the age of five, adult at ten and an elder at the age of twenty. To meet a thirty-year-old goblin is a rarity, as most of them voluntarily return to seek a lonesome death in Davokar before then. Meeting one who is forty is all but unheard of.
The only reason why goblins are tolerated in Thistle Hold is that they are practical when it comes to doing dirty work like draining marshes, emptying latrines and flailing about on scaffoldings. Thanks to that, a gibbering horde of sinewy goblins flows into the town every morning to work hard with a number of heavy, dangerous or thankless tasks. Come nightfall, they are once again driven away, and a bunch of uncharacteristically silent goblins march back to their beds in simple huts of straw and clay.
Some goblins stray from this pattern, mainly treasure-hunters and goblins employed in the households of wealthy individuals in Thistle Hold. A dozen or so goblin younglings can also be found in the convent school in the capital city, where a handful of extremely patient monks have com mitted themselves to save whatever soul resides inside the wild whelps. The most renowned goblin to represent both of these phenomena is Garm Wormwriggler, brought up at the convent school to later become a successful treasure-hunter.

### Goblin Traits
All goblins have both the [[Short-lived]] and [[Pariah]] traits. Most have the [[Survival instinct]] trait as well (costs as an ability).

### Goblin Names
Goblin names are varied and it is hard to see any clear naming conventions. It is also common for goblins to change their names or add a syllable depending on what they experience in life. If one were to attempt to point out something general regarding their names, it would be that the length of the names usually goes hand-in-hand with the bearer’s rank – the longer the name, the higher the status within the tribe.
- **Goblin male names**: Alfbolg, Barra, Goltas, Illefons, Ler, Rosti, Shigg, Tengel, Ul. 
- **Goblin female names**: Aa, Fosa, Guhula, Hugalea, Tulga, Udelia, Ufa, Wamba, Yla, Yppa.