According to the Scholars of Ordo Magica, the people of Ambria and Davokar are descendants of the same tribe, although the barbarians and the Queen’s Folk hardly consider themselves so closely related. Queen Korinthia’s claim to Ambria, the land south of Davokar forest, is motivated by her ancestral connection to the region, and even the most novice of Ambrian linguists can explain in what ways the gibbering speech of the barbarians and the melodious tongue of the Queen’s Folk are similar. More disputed are claims saying that the two peoples originate from the same stem, rooted in the old and long forgotten empire of Symbaroum whose ruins are hidden deep within Davokar.
Whatever the case, there are significant differences between the two peoples in a cultural sense. The Ambrians abandoned their blighted homeland Alberetor twenty years ago, to settle down in the well-preserved ruins of Lindaros. On their journey they brought along their architecture, knowledge, economic system and social hierarchies. Thanks to its discipline the Ambrian army outmatches the barbarian clan warriors when they meet in the open fields, but in the woods where the skill of the individual becomes a decisive factor they are more evenly matched. That, coupled with the advantage of having greater local knowledge, has so far kept the Ambrians from entering very deep into the forest – with the exception of treasure-hunters, religious fanatics searching for lost sun temples and free settlers hoping to escape the Queen’s control.
Since the days of old, the barbarians have been ruled by chieftains, but have enjoyed much greater independence and freedom compared to the chastened crofters and peasants in the south. Nor do the barbarian leaders seek to enforce a strict or rigid way of life upon their subjects. The witches, the spiritual leaders among the barbarians, rule with a light hand in the form of taboos and general rules – revere nature, never abuse it and avoid the darker parts of the forest. The clans lead their lives independent from one another, with the occasional exception of skirmishes over resources in the border regions. By tradition, the clan leaders answer to the High Chieftain on the plateau of Karvosti, but he is in reality more of an arbitrator between feuding clans than a strong ruler. However, the High Chieftain is expected to lead the united barbarians to repel any invaders, particularly the Ambrians, if it ever comes to open war.
This possibility, a united barbarian resistance commanded by the High Chieftain, gives the Queen and her advisors nightmares, and would explain why the Ambrians officially are so cautious regarding Davokar. Since the battle in Year 10, when Korinthia’s troops attacked and destroyed Haloban and his Jezites, only the Templars serving the Sun Church have made any outright attacks against barbarian settlements. Most infamous is their assault on Karvosti in Year 16 when they attempted to seize the plateau with force of arms – an attempt which ended in a discouraging defeat.

### Ambrian Traits
Characters of the Queen’s Folk can choose either the [[Contacts]] or the [[Privileged]] trait.

### Ambrian Names
Female Ambrian names usually end with –a while the male names end with –o, but there are many exceptions since their native kingdom was so extensive. One distinct exception is that the names of most Ambrian nobles ends in –gai, – goi or –mei. The use of the letter “x” is uncommon but existing and the letter “j” is replaced by the letter “i” in almost every case. The vowels e and i are used frequently.
- **Male Ambrian names**: Aro, Beremo, Demeon, Edogai, Gadramei, Iasogoi, Jomilo, Karlio, Malliano, Peonio. 
- **Female Ambrian names**: Abesina, Elindra, Elionara, Levia, Mehira, Ordelia, Revina, Suria, Variol, Vidina.

### Barbarian Traits
Characters of barbarian heritage can choose either the [[Contacts]] or the [[Bushcraft]] trait.

### Barbarian Names
Just like the Ambrians, barbarian female names usually end with –a, while male names tend to end with –mar, –mon or – mer. It is customary that every other letter is a consonant and a vowel; double vowels are common, while double consonants are almost never used. Like the Ambrians, barbarians tend not to use the letter ”j”, instead changing it to “y”. The greatest difference between the two people is the barbarians’ love for the vowels a, o and u.
- **Male barbarian names**: Adelar, Gadramon, Haloban, Konarad, Lothar, Odaban, Rábaiamon, Taran, Tharaban, Vikomer. 
- **Female barbarian names**: Adela, Aloeta, Eferneya, Elmea, Elda, Galoma, Horosa, Karona, Verama, Yagaba.
