
Even though its magisters and masters do not like to admit it, Ordo Magica is a powerful faction. Grand Master Seldonio is loyal to the Queen and demands of his subordinates that they work for the glory and enrichment of the realm – a stance fully adopted by Chapter Master Cornelio. However, among the members of the order there are also many who put their own betterment and development above all else. Among these are, for instance, the order masters Eufrynda and the newly arrived Kullinan Furia. The latter is at least as old and powerful as the Grand Master himself, and he belongs to a group of wizards who survived the War and who want to return to an arrangement where Ordo Magica is more independent of the Crown. Kullinan has come to Thistle Hold to study the corruption and its effects, and also to examine its potential as a source of power. The aim of the order is to generate knowledge, and to do so focusing on that which benefits the grand civilization project of Korinthia. In the new and promised land there is still much to learn – knowledge which is of the utmost importance if the Ambrians are to gain mastery over Davokar. The Symbarian ruins are secondary, at least according to the strategy established by Chapter Master Cornelio; the primary aim must be to make sense of the vegetation and inhabitants of the forest! Eufrynda fumes and calls this the strategy of a coward. And she has both Master Goncai and the newcomer Kullinan on her side – the former because he is seriously infatuated with her, the latter since he wants to seek out any and all sources of corruption. But when the strategy of the Chapter Master is based on the commands of Seldonio, Eufrynda must go behind Cornelio’s back when diverting from the plan. Not that she minds, but it certainly makes everything much more strenuous. Her only comfort is that the arrival of Kullinan has made it easier for her to handle Cornelio when he finds her out – as for instance in the case of the recent and anything but successful expedition to the Tomb of Dreams (see the adventure Tomb of Dying Dreams). As a faction and organization, Ordo Magica can collaborate with anyone, provided that it renders knowledge which is beneficial to the kingdom. They obviously cannot enter into public ventures with the Iron Pact, but agreements can actually be reached if they promote the interests of both parties – like when the order temporarily teamed up with an Elven warband to battle the Abomination at Clear Water. And when it comes to the so far secretive cult The Sacred of the Old Blood, three Masters and a handful of novices are already initiated, but none of those can be found in Thistle Hold. However, Kullinan Furia’s curiosity on the dark powers of Davokar may very well mean that he will eventually be met with an offer …