
The Iron Pact is run from a secret location in the Underworld called the Halls of a Thousand Tears, the only permanent Elven settlement in Davokar. For centuries they only had the clans and some single, spontaneously awakened abominations to worry about. But with the arrival of the Ambrians they are up against a superior power that does not realize the gravity of the problems it causes, for themselves and others. Faced with this threat, the leaders of the pact have reacted in different ways. The most peaceable ones claim that their only chance is to help the Ambrians understand; others stress that the battle is already lost and aim to cause the enemy as much harm as possible before the end. The experiences of the former treasure hunter Lysindra Goldengrasp have led her to the conclusion that the elves and the witches are correct – the woods must be left in peace or else Ambria will end up as the realm of the Dark Lords. She does not trust Korinthia or anyone else to be able to accept the truth, and she is prepared to do anything in her power to sabotage the projects of both treasure hunters and explorers. To aid her she has the autumn elf Mearoel and a group carefully chosen, previous explorer colleagues that have reached the same conclusion. The elf and the human agents are hidden in a warehouse close to the palisade where she used to store her exploration gear. Aside from the continuous interference with the Hold’s trade in Symbarian artifacts, Lysindra and Mearoel have two main goals. First, they aim to burn the town to the ground, something they have already started to prepare by hiding barrels of flammable liquids in the district surrounding the Queen’s Square. When that has been accomplished, they need the Iron Pact to agree on a more aggressive strategy – together with human collaborators in the border region, the elves and their allies could gain information about and stop all expeditions journeying out into the woods. And if that would make the Queen send her army into Davokar, then maybe also the clans could be persuaded to rally behind the High Chieftain and engage in the battle. Up until the first part of the plan has been implemented they leave the authorities in town alone. But as soon as Thistle Hold is on fire, neither Nightpitch, nor Suria Argona or the venerable Prior Emundi goes safe!