

Traditionally, the houses Argona, Vearra and Brigo are the ones closest in rank behind Kohinoor. House Brigo has always had good relations with the Queen’s family, while Argona and Vearra have tried to seize the crown on numerous occasions throughout history. With age, Alkantor Argona grows more and more desperate, but he is a skilled diplomat that seldom lets his feelings show. Lesena Vearra is more or less the same. Officially she is in town trying to satisfy her unquenchable thirst for adventure; in reality she has traveled to the border region in the hope of building new, and strengthening old, alliances and eventually putting a Vearra on the throne. Ana Herengol, the ruthless daughter of Field Marshal Beremo’s sister, is secretly Alesaro Kohinoor’s agent in the Hold. Her task is of course to promote the hero king Ynedar’s brother as a more worthy monarch than Korinthia. Finally, Keroldo Erebus usually makes a huge impression when the nobles convene, though not in a very positive way. He is really not much more than a pleasure-seeking and lazy drunkard, scorned by the more prominent nobles. When it comes to long-term goals, the nobles of the Hold are not nearly in agreement. Most, espe cially the ones with power, want to see Korinthia dethroned but have different ideas on who should succeed her – which is the main reason why they have not acted. On the other hand, several representatives of the smaller houses, not least Keroldo Erebus, love their Queen and ascribe to her almost godlike characteristics. In the end, there is only one thing they all can agree on: that Nightpitch has to attribute greater value to noble blood and make sure that Narugor’s duke, the pretender Junio Berakka, keeps focusing on the threat from Davokar instead of meddling in the affairs of the true nobles. The biggest internal conflict is about who is going to sit on the throne once its current owner has been pushed aside – will it be an Argona or a Vearra? Or will it be another Kohinoor; one who really knows the value of noble blood? To make things even more complicated, Count Edogai Brigo is trying to get his son Iasogoi to enter into play. So far the treasure hunter legend steers clear of the Hall of Knights, but he is not a youngster anym ore and maybe he will soon be mature enough to abandon the path of the explorer and dive headlong into the intrigues. On other conflicts, there are the tensions between House Erebus and the families who have their estates close to Thistle Hold. According to the latter it is a shame that Korinthia allows Blackmoor to exist, and that view grows clearer and clearer for every time its bailiff behaves like a scoundrel in the Hall of Knights. Religion permeates the assemblies in the Hall of Knights and all nobles are keen to show themselves being true to Prios’ commandments. They are also cautious not to offend House Kohinoor; they pro fess their allegiance to the Crown on a daily basis and all discussions suggesting anything else are held behind closed doors with trustworthy com panions – excluding the likes of Keroldo Erebus and Duke Junio’s representative in the Hold, his son Davidos Berakka. According to the official stands of the nobles, only the Iron Pact is to be seen as an unambiguous enemy. Off the record, all other factions, including the elves, are nothing more than potential pawns in the play for power and wealth. In that spirit, the House Vearra has for instance initiated a close collaboration with the First Father, promising that the Sun God’s influence would increase if anyone of their House sat on the throne.